..-..-.-31032023-244830 xxxGIDHxxx
CG-DL-E-31032023-244830 xxxGIDExxx

Hkkx II — [k.M 1

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
lañ 8] ubZ fnYyh] 'kqØ okj] ekpZ 31] 2023@ pS= 10] 1945 ¼'kd½
No. 8] NEW DELHI, FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 2023/CHAITRA 10, 1945 (SAKA)
bl Hkkx esa fHkUu i`"B la[;k nh tkrh gS ftlls fd ;g vyx ladyu ds :i esa j[kk tk ldsA
Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation.
MINISTRY OF LAW AND JUSTICE
(Legislative Department)
New Delhi, the 31 st March, 2023 / Chaitra 10 , 1945 (Saka)
The following Act of Parliament received the assent of the President on the
31st March, 2023 and is hereby published for general information:—
THE FINANCE ACT, 2023
No. 8 OF 2023
[31 st March, 2023.]
An Act to give effect to the financial proposals of the Central Government
for the financial year 2023-2024.
B E it enacted by Parliament in the Seventy-fourth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:—
CHAPTER I
P RELIMINARY
1. ( 1 ) This Act may be called the Finance Act, 2023. Short title and
commencement. ( 2 ) Save as otherwise provided in this Act,—
( a ) sections 2 to 127 shall come into force on the 1st day of April, 2023;
( b ) sections 128 to 163 shall come into force on such date as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
CHAPTER II
R ATES OF INCOME - TAX
2. ( 1 ) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections ( 2 ) and ( 3 ), for the assessment year Income-tax.
commencing on the 1st day of April, 2023, income-tax shall be charged at the rates specified
in Part I of the First Schedule and such tax shall be increased by a surcharge, for the
purposes of the Union, calculated in each case in the manner provided therein.

56 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 
Amendment of 132. In the Customs Act, in section 157, in sub-section ( 2 ), after clause ( c ), the
section 157. following clause shall be inserted, namely:—
"( ca ) the manner and conditions for payment of duty and removal of goods
under clause ( C ) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 65A;".
Amendment of 133. In the Customs Act, in section 159, after the figures "43,", the figures and letter
section 159. "65A," shall be inserted.
Customs tariff
Amendment of 134. In the Customs Tariff Act, 1975, (hereinafter referred to as the Customs Tariff 51 of 1975.
sections 9, 9A Act), with effect from the 1st day of January, 1995,—
and 9C.
( i ) in section 9,—
( a ) in sub-section ( 6 ), in the first proviso, for the words "in a review", the
words "on consideration of a review" shall be substituted;
( b ) in sub-section ( 7 ), the words "and determined" shall be omitted;
( ii ) in section 9A,—
( a ) in sub-section ( 5 ), in the first proviso, for the words "in a review", the
words "on consideration of a review" shall be substituted;
( b ) in sub-section ( 6 ), the words "and determined" shall be omitted;
( iii ) in section 9C,—
( a ) in sub-section ( 1 ), the words "order of" shall be omitted;
( b ) in sub-section ( 2 ), for the word "order", the words "determination or
review" shall be substituted;
( c ) in sub-section ( 3 ), for the word "order", the words "determination or
review" shall be substituted;
( d ) after sub-section ( 5 ), the following Explanation shall be inserted,
namely:—
' Explanation .—For the purposes of this section, "determination"
or "review" means the determination or review done in such manner as
may be specified in the rules made under sections 8B, 9, 9A and 9B.'.
Amendment of 135. In the Customs Tariff Act, the First Schedule shall—
First Schedule.
( a ) be amended in the manner specified in the Second Schedule;
( b ) be also amended in the manner specified in the Third Schedule;
( c ) with effect from the 1st May, 2023, be also amended in the manner specified
in the Fourth Schedule;
( d ) with effect from the 1st April, 2023, be also amended in the manner specified
in the Seventh Schedule;
Amendment of 136. In the Customs Tariff Act, the Second Schedule shall, with effect from the
Second 1st May, 2023, be amended in the manner specified in the Fifth Schedule.
Schedule.
Central Goods and Services Tax
Amendment of 137. In the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as the 12 of 2017.
section 10. Central Goods and Services Tax Act), in section 10,—
( a ) in sub-section ( 2 ), in clause ( d ), the words "goods or" shall be omitted;
( b ) in sub-section ( 2A ), in clause ( c ), the words "goods or" shall be omitted.
Amendment of 138. In section 16 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-section ( 2 ),—
section 16.
( i ) in the second proviso, for the words "added to his output tax liability, along
with interest thereon", the words and figures "paid by him along with interest payable
under section 50" shall be substituted;

S EC . 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 
( ii ) in the third proviso, after the words "made by him", the words "to the
supplier" shall be inserted.
139. In section 17 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act,— Amendment of
section 17.
( a ) in sub-section ( 3 ), in the Explanation , for the words and figure "except
those specified in paragraph 5 of the said Schedule", the following shall be substituted,
namely:—
"except,—
( i ) the value of activities or transactions specified in paragraph 5 of
the said Schedule; and
( ii ) the value of such activities or transactions as may be prescribed
in respect of clause ( a ) of paragraph 8 of the said Schedule.";
( b ) in sub-section ( 5 ), after clause ( f ), the following clause shall be inserted,
namely:—
"( fa ) goods or services or both received by a taxable person, which are
used or intended to be used for activities relating to his obligations under
corporate social responsibility referred to in section 135 of the Companies
18 of 2013. Act, 2013;".
140. In section 23 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, for sub-section ( 2 ), the Amendment of
following sub-section shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted section 23.
with effect from the 1st day of July, 2017, namely:—
"( 2 ) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in sub-section ( 1 ) of
section 22 or section 24, the Government may, on the recommendations of the Council,
by notification, subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be specified therein,
specify the category of persons who may be exempted from obtaining registration
under this Act.".
141. In section 30 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-section ( 1 ),— Amendment of
section 30.
( a ) for the words "the prescribed manner within thirty days from the date of
service of the cancellation order:", the words "such manner, within such time and
subject to such conditions and restrictions, as may be prescribed." shall be substituted;
( b ) the proviso shall be omitted.
142. In section 37 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, after sub-section ( 4 ), Amendment of
the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:— section 37.
"( 5 ) A registered person shall not be allowed to furnish the details of outward
supplies under sub-section ( 1 ) for a tax period after the expiry of a period of three
years from the due date of furnishing the said details:
Provided that the Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, by
notification, subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be specified therein,
allow a registered person or a class of registered persons to furnish the details of
outward supplies for a tax period under sub-section ( 1 ), even after the expiry of the
said period of three years from the due date of furnishing the said details.".
143. In section 39 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, after sub-section ( 10 ), Amendment of
the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:— section 39.
"( 11 ) A registered person shall not be allowed to furnish a return for a tax period
after the expiry of a period of three years from the due date of furnishing the said
return:
Provided that the Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, by
notification, subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be specified therein,
allow a registered person or a class of registered persons to furnish the return for a tax
period, even after the expiry of the said period of three years from the due date of
furnishing the said return.".

58 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 
Amendment of 144. Section 44 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act shall be renumbered as
section 44. sub-section ( 1 ) thereof, and after sub-section ( 1 ) as so renumbered, the following
sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—
"( 2 ) A registered person shall not be allowed to furnish an annual return under
sub-section ( 1 ) for a financial year after the expiry of a period of three years from the
due date of furnishing the said annual return:
Provided that the Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, by
notification, and subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be specified
therein, allow a registered person or a class of registered persons to furnish an annual
return for a financial year under sub-section ( 1 ), even after the expiry of the said
period of three years from the due date of furnishing the said annual return.".
Amendment of 145. In section 52 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, after sub-section ( 14 ),
section 52. the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—
"( 15 ) The operator shall not be allowed to furnish a statement under
sub-section ( 4 ) after the expiry of a period of three years from the due date of furnishing
the said statement:
Provided that the Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, by
notification, subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be specified therein,
allow an operator or a class of operators to furnish a statement under sub-section ( 4 ),
even after the expiry of the said period of three years from the due date of furnishing
the said statement.".
Amendment of 146. In section 54 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-section ( 6 ), the
section 54. words "excluding the amount of input tax credit provisionally accepted," shall be omitted.
Amendment of 147. In section 56 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, for the words "from the
section 56. date immediately after the expiry of sixty days from the date of receipt of application under
the said sub-section till the date of refund of such tax", the words "for the period of delay
beyond sixty days from the date of receipt of such application till the date of refund of such
tax, to be computed in such manner and subject to such conditions and restrictions as may
be prescribed" shall be substituted.
Amendment of 148. In section 62 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-section ( 2 ),—
section 62.
( a ) for the words "thirty days", the words "sixty days" shall be substituted;
( b ) the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—
"Provided that where the registered person fails to furnish a valid return
within sixty days of the service of the assessment order under sub-section ( 1 ),
he may furnish the same within a further period of sixty days on payment of an
additional late fee of one hundred rupees for each day of delay beyond sixty
days of the service of the said assessment order and in case he furnishes valid
return within such extended period, the said assessment order shall be deemed
to have been withdrawn, but the liability to pay interest under sub-section ( 1 )
of section 50 or to pay late fee under section 47 shall continue.".
Substitution of 149. For section 109 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, the following section
section 109. shall be substituted, namely:—
Constitution of "109. ( 1 ) The Government shall, on the recommendations of the Council, by
Appellate notification, establish with effect from such date as may be specified therein, an
Tribunal and
Benches Appellate Tribunal known as the Goods and Services Tax Appellate Tribunal for
thereof. hearing appeals against the orders passed by the Appellate Authority or the Revisional
Authority.
( 2 ) The jurisdiction, powers and authority conferred on the Appellate Tribunal
shall be exercised by the Principal Bench and the State Benches constituted under
sub-section ( 3 ) and sub-section ( 4 ).

S EC . 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 
( 3 ) The Government shall, by notification, constitute a Principal Bench of the
Appellate Tribunal at New Delhi which shall consist of the President, a Judicial
Member, a Technical Member (Centre) and a Technical Member (State).
( 4 ) On the request of the State, the Government may, by notification, constitute
such number of State Benches at such places and with such jurisdiction as may be
recommended by the Council, which shall consist of two Judical Members, a Technial
Member (Centre) and a Technical Member (State).
( 5 ) The Principal Bench and the State Bench shall hear appeals against the
orders passed by the Appellate Authority or the Revisional Authority:
Provided that the cases in which any one of the issues involved relates to the
place of supply, shall be heard only by the Principal Bench.
( 6 ) The President shall, from time to time, by a general or special order, distribute
the business of the Appellate Tribunal among the Benches and may transfer cases
from one Bench to another.
( 7 ) The senior-most Judicial Member within the State Benches, as may be notified,
shall act as the Vice-President for such State Benches and shall exercise such powers
of the President as may be prescribed, but for all other purposes be considered as a
Member.
( 8 ) Appeals, where the tax or input tax credit involved or the amount of fine, fee
or penalty determined in any order appealed against, does not exceed fifty lakh rupees
and which does not involve any question of law may, with the approval of the
President, and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed on the recommendations
of the Council, be heard by a single Member, and in all other cases, shall be heard
together by one Judicial Member and one Technical Member.
( 9 ) If, after hearing the case, the Members differ in their opinion on any point or
points, such Member shall state the point or points on which they differ, and the
President shall refer such case for hearing,—
( a ) where the appeal was originally heard by Members of a State Bench,
to another Member of a State Bench within the State or, where no such other
State Bench is available within the State, to a Member of a State Bench in
another State;
( b ) where the appeal was originally heard by Members of the Principal
Bench, to another Member from the Principal Bench or, where no such other
Member is available, to a Member of any State Bench,
and such point or points shall be decided according to the majority opinion including the
opinion of the Members who first heard the case.
( 10 ) The Government may, in consultation with the President, for the
administrative efficiency, transfer Members from one Bench to another Bench:
Provided that a Technical Member (State) of a State Bench may be transferred
to a State Bench only of the same State in which he was originally appointed, in
consultation with the State Government.
( 11 ) No act or proceedings of the Appellate Tribunal shall be questioned or
shall be invalid merely on the ground of the existence of any vacancy or defect in the
constitution of the Appellate Tribunal.".
150. For section 110 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, the following section Substitution of
shall be substituted, namely:— new section for
section 110.
"110. ( 1 ) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as— President and
Members of
( a ) the President, unless he has been a Judge of the Supreme Court or is Appellate
or has been the Chief Justice of a High Court; Tribunal, their
qualification,
( b ) a Judicial Member, unless he— appointment,
conditions of ( i ) has been a Judge of the High Court; or service, etc.

60 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 
( ii ) has, for a combined period of ten years, been a District Judge or
an Additional District Judge;
( c ) a Technical Member (Centre), unless he is or has been a member of
the Indian Revenue (Customs and Indirect Taxes) Service, Group A, or of the All
India Service with at least three years of experience in the administration of an
existing law or goods and services tax in the Central Government, and has
completed at least twenty-five years of service in Group A;
( d ) a Technical Member (State), unless he is or has been an officer of the
State Government or an officer of All India Service, not below the rank of
Additional Commissioner of Value Added Tax or the State goods and services
tax or such rank, not lower than that of the First Appellate Authority, as may be
notified by the concerned State Government, on the recommendations of the
Council and has completed twenty-five years of service in Group A, or
equivalent, with at least three years of experience in the administration of an
existing law or the goods and services tax or in the field of finance and taxation
in the State Government:
Provided that the State Government may, on the recommendations of the
Council, by notification, relax the requirement of completion of twenty-five
years of service in Group A, or equivalent, in respect of officers of such State
where no person has completed twenty-five years of service in Group A, or
equivalent, but has completed twenty-five years of service in the Government,
subject to such conditions, and till such period, as may be specified in the
notification.
( 2 ) The President, Judicial Member, Technical Member (Centre) and Technical
Member (State) shall be appointed or re-appointed by the Government on the
recommendations of a Search-cum-Selection Committee constituted under
sub-section ( 4 ):
Provided that in the event of the occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the
President by reason of his death, resignation or otherwise, the Judicial Member or, in
his absence, the senior-most Technical Member of the PrincipaI Bench shall act as the
President until the date on which a new President, appointed in accordance with the
provisions of this Act to fill such vacancy, enters upon his office:
Provided further that where the President is unable to discharge his functions
owing to absence, illness or any other cause, the Judicial Member or, in his absence,
the senior-most Technical Member of the Principal Bench, shall discharge the
functions of the President until the date on which the President resumes his duties.
( 3 ) While making selection for Technical Member (State) of a State Bench, first
preference shall be given to officers who have worked in the State Government of the
State to which the jurisdiction of the Bench extends.
( 4 ) ( a ) The Search-cum-Selection Committee for Technical Member (State) of a
State Bench shall consist of the following members, namely:—
( i ) the Chief Justice of the High Court in whose jurisdiction the State
Bench is located, to be the Chairperson of the Committee;
( ii ) the senior-most JudiciaI Member in the State, and where no JudiciaI
Member is available, a retired Judge of the High Court in whose jurisdiction the
State Bench is located, as may be nominated by the Chief Justice of such
High Court;
( iii ) Chief Secretary of the State in which the State Bench is located;
( iv ) one Additional Chief Secretary or Principal Secretary or Secretary of
the State in which the State Bench is located, as may be nominated by such
State Government, not in-charge of the Department responsible for
administration of State tax; and

S EC . 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 
( v ) Additional Chief Secretary or Principal Secretary or Secretary of the
Department responsible for administration of State tax, of the State in which the
State Bench is located — Member Secretary; and
( b ) the Search-cum-Selection Committee for all other cases shall consist of the
following members, namely:—
( i ) the Chief Justice of India or a Judge of Supreme Court nominated by
him, to be the Chairperson of the Committee;
( ii ) Secretary of the Central Government nominated by the Cabinet
Secretary — Member;
( iii ) Chief Secretary of a State to be nominated by the Council — Member;
( iv ) one Member, who—
( A ) in case of appointment of a President of a Tribunal, shall be the
outgoing President of the Tribunal; or
( B ) in case of appointment of a Member of a Tribunal, shall be the
sitting President of the Tribunal; or
( C ) in case of the President of the Tribunal seeking re-appointment
or where the outgoing President is unavailable or the removal of the
President is being considered, shall be a retired Judge of the
Supreme Court or a retired Chief Justice of a High Court nominated by the
Chief Justice of India; and
( v ) Secretary of the Department of Revenue in the Ministry of Finance of
the Central Government — Member Secretary.
( 5 ) The Chairperson shall have the casting vote and the Member Secretary
shall not have a vote.
( 6 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, order, or decree of
any court or any law for the time being in force, the Committee shall recommend a
panel of two names for appointment or re-appointment to the post of the President or
a Member, as the case may be.
( 7 ) No appointment or re-appointment of the Members of the Appellate Tribunal
shall be invalid merely by reason of any vacancy or defect in the constitution of the
Search-cum-Selection Committee.
( 8 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, order, or decree of
any court or any law for the time being in force, the salary of the President and the
Members of the Appellate Tribunal shall be such as may be prescribed and their
allowances and other terms and conditions of service shall be the same as applicable
to Central Government officers carrying the same pay:
Provided that neither the salary and allowances nor other terms and conditions
of service of the President of Members of the Appellate Tribunal shall be varied to
their disadvantage after their appointment:
Provided further that, if the President or Member takes a house on rent, he may
be reimbursed a house rent higher than the house rent allowance as are admissible to
a Central Government officer holding the post carrying the same pay, subject to such
limitations and conditions as may be prescribed.
( 9 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, order, or decree of
any court or any law for the time being in force, the President of the Appellate Tribunal
shall hold office for a term of four years from the date on which he enters upon his
office, or until he attains the age of sixty-seven years, whichever is earlier and shall be
eligible for re-appointment for a period not exceeding two years.
( 10 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, order, or decree of

62 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 
any court or any law for the time being in force, the Judicial Member, Technical
Member (Centre) or Technical Member (State) of the Appellate Tribunal shall hold
office for a term of four years from the date on which he enters upon his office, or until
he attains the age of sixty-five years, whichever is earlier and shall be eligible for
re-appointment for a period not exceeding two years.
( 11 ) The President or any Member may, by notice in writing under his hand
addressed to the Government, resign from his office:
Provided that the President or Member shall continue to hold office until the
expiry of three months from the date of receipt of such notice by the Government or
until a person duly appointed as his successor enters upon his office or until the
expiry of his term of office, whichever is the earliest.
( 12 ) The Government may, on the recommendations of the Search-cum-Selection
Committee, remove from the office President or a Member, who—
( a) has been adjudged an insolvent; or
( b ) has been convicted of an offence which involves moral turpitude; or
( c ) has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as such
President or Member; or
( d ) has acquired such financial or other interest as is likely to affect
prejudicially his functions as such President or Member; or
( e ) has so abused his position as to render his continuance in office
prejudicial to the public interest:
Provided that the President or the Member shall not be removed on any of the
grounds specified in clauses ( d ) and ( e ), unless he has been informed of the charges
against him and has been given an opportunity of being heard.
( 13 ) The Government, on the recommendations of the Search-cum-Selection
Committee, may suspend from office, the President or a Judicial or Technical
Member in respect of whom proceedings for removal have been initiated under
sub-section ( 12 ).
( 14 ) Subject to the provisions of article 220 of the Constitution, the President or
other Members, on ceasing to hold their office, shall not be eligible to appear, act or
plead before the Principal Bench or the State Bench in which he was the President or,
as the case may be, a Member.”.
Substitution of 151. For section 114 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, the following section
new section for shall be subsituted, namely:—
section 114.
Financial and “114. The President shall exercise such financial and administrative powers
Administrative over the Appellate Tribunal as may be prescribed.”.
powers of
President.
Amendment of 152. In section 117 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act,—
section 117.
( a ) in sub-section ( 1 ), for the words “State Bench or Area Benches”, the words
“State Benches” shall be substituted;
( b ) in sub-section ( 5 ), in clauses ( a ) and ( b ), for the words “State Bench or Area
Benches”, the words “State Benches” shall be substituted.
Amendment of 153. In section 118 of the Central Goods and Sevices Tax Act, in sub-section ( 1 ), in
section 118. clause ( a ), for the words “National Bench or Regional Bench”, the words “Principal Bench”
shall be substituted.
Amendment of 154. In section 119 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act,—
section 119.
( a ) for the words “National or Regional Benches”, the words “Principal Bench”
shall be substituted;

S EC . 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 
( b ) for the words “State Bench or Area Benches”, the words “State Benches”
shall be substituted.
155. In section 122 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, after sub-section ( 1A ), Amendment of
the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:— section 122.
"( 1B ) Any electronic commerce operator who—
( i ) allows a supply of goods or services or both through it by an
unregistered person other than a person exempted from registration by a
notification issued under this Act to make such supply;
( ii ) allows an inter-State supply of goods or services or both through it
by a person who is not eligible to make such inter-State supply; or
( iii ) fails to furnish the correct details in the statement to be furnished
under sub-section ( 4 ) of section 52 of any outward supply of goods effected
through it by a person exempted from obtaining registration under this Act,
shall be liable to pay a penalty of ten thousand rupees, or an amount equivalent to the
amount of tax involved had such supply been made by a registered person other than
a person paying tax under section 10, whichever is higher.".
156. In section 132 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-section ( 1 ),— Amendment of
section 132.
( a ) clauses ( g ), ( j ) and ( k ) shall be omitted;
( b ) in clause ( l ), for the words, brackets and letters "clauses ( a ) to ( k )", the
words, brackets and letters "clauses ( a ) to ( f ) and clauses ( h ) and ( i )" shall be
substituted;
( c ) in clause ( iii ), for the words "any other offence", the words, brackets and
letter"an offence specified in clause ( b )," shall be substituted;
( d ) in clause ( iv ), the words, brackets and letters "or clause ( g ) or clause ( j )"
shall be omitted.
157. In section 138 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act,— Amendment of
section 138.
( a ) in sub-section ( 1 ), in the first proviso,—
( i ) for clause ( a ), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—
"( a ) a person who has been allowed to compound once in respect
of any of the offences specified in clauses ( a ) to ( f ), ( h ), ( i ) and ( l ) of
sub-section ( 1 ) of section 132;";
( ii ) clause ( b ) shall be omitted;
( iii ) for clause ( c ), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—
"( c ) a person who has been accused of committing an offence
under clause ( b ) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 132;";
( iv ) clause ( e ) shall be omitted;
( b ) in sub-section ( 2 ), for the words "ten thousand rupees or fifty per cent. of
the tax involved, whichever is higher, and the maximum amount not being less than
thirty thousand rupees or one hundred and fifty per cent. of the tax, whichever is
higher", the words "twenty-five per cent. of the tax involved and the maximum amount
not being more than one hundred per cent. of the tax involved" shall be substituted.
158. After section 158 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, the following Insertion of
section shall be inserted, namely:— new section
158A.
"158A. ( 1 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 133, 152 and 158, Consent based
the following details furnished by a registered person may, subject to the provisions sharing of
information
of sub-section ( 2 ), and on the recommendations of the Council, be shared by the furnished by
common portal with such other systems as may be notified by the Government, in taxable person.
such manner and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, namely:—

64 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 
( a ) particulars furnished in the application for registration under
section 25 or in the return filed under section 39 or under section 44;
( b ) the particulars uploaded on the common portal for preparation of
invoice, the details of outward supplies furnished under section 37 and the
particulars uploaded on the common portal for generation of documents under
section 68;
( c ) such other details as may be prescribed.
( 2 ) For the purposes of sharing details under sub-section ( 1 ), the consent shall
be obtained, of—
( a ) the supplier, in respect of details furnished under clauses ( a ), ( b ) and
( c ) of sub-section ( 1 ); and
( b ) the recipient, in respect of details furnished under clause ( b ) of
sub-section ( 1 ), and under clause ( c ) of sub-section ( 1 ) only where such details
include identity information of the recipient,
in such form and manner as may be prescribed.
( 3 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force,
no action shall lie against the Government or the common portal with respect to any
liability arising consequent to information shared under this section and there shall
be no impact on the liability to pay tax on the relevant supply or as per the relevant
return.".
Retrospective 159. ( 1 ) In Schedule III to the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, paragraphs 7 and
exemption to 8 and the Explanation 2 thereof (as inserted vide section 32 of Act 31 of 2018) shall be
certain deemed to have been inserted therein with effect from the 1st day of July, 2017. activities and
transactions in ( 2 ) No refund shall be made of all the tax which has been collected, but which would
Schedule III to not have been so collected, had sub-section ( 1 ) been in force at all material times.
the Central
Goods and
Services Tax
Act. Integrated Goods and Services Tax
Amendment of 160. In the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as 13 of 2017.
section 2. the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act), in section 2,—
( a ) for clause ( 16 ), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—
'( 16 ) "non-taxable online recipient" means any unregistered person
receiving online information and database access or retrieval services located
in taxable territory.
Explanation. —For the purposes of this clause, the expression
"unregistered person" includes a person registered solely in terms of
clause ( vi ) of section 24 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017;'; 12 of 2017.
( b ) in clause ( 17 ), the words "essentially automated and involving minimal
human intervention and" shall be omitted.
Amendment of 161. In section 12 of the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-section ( 8 ),
section 12. the proviso shall be omitted.
Amendment of 162. In section 13 of the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, sub-section ( 9 ) shall
section 13. be omitted.
Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act
Amendment of 163. In the Schedule to the Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States)
Schedule. Act, 2017,— 15 of 2017.
( a ) in serial number 1, for the entry in column (4) occuring against tariff item
2106 90 20, the entry "fifty-one per cent. of retail sale price per unit" shall be substituted;
( b ) in serial number 2, for the entry in column (4) occurring against Chapter 24,
the entry "Four thousand one hundred and seventy rupees per thousand sticks or