HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1203
Regd. No. CHD/0093/2015 – 2017
Haryana Government Gazette

Published by Authority
© Govt. of Haryana
No. 76-2017/Ext.] CHANDIGARH, THURSDAY, MAY 4, 2017 (VAISAKHA 13, 1939 SAKA)
HARYANA VIDHAN SABHA SECRETARIAT
Notification
The 4 th Ma y , 2017
No. 23-HLA of 2017. — The Haryana Goods and Services Tax Bill, 2017, is
hereby published for general information under proviso to Rule 128 of the Rules of
Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Haryana Legislative Assembly: –
Bill No. 23- HLA of 2017
THE HARYANA GOODS AND SERVICES TAX BILL, 2017
A
BILL
to make a provision for levy and collection of tax on intra-State supply of
goods or services or both by the State of Haryana and for matters connected
therewith or incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana in the Sixty-eighth
Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
1. (1) This Act may be called the Haryana Goods and Services Tax Short title,
Act, 2017. extent and
commencement.
(2) It extends to the whole of the State of Haryana.
(3) It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint:
(1203)

1204 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
Provided that different dates may be appointed for different
provisions of this Act and any reference in any such provision to the
commencement of this Act shall be construed as a reference to the coming
into force of that provision.
Definitions. 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(1) “ actionable claim ” shall have t he same meaning as assigned
to it in section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882
(Central Act 4 of 1882) ;
(2) “address of delivery” means the address of the recipient of
goods or services or both indicated on the tax invoice issued by
a registered pers on for delivery of such goods or services or
both;
(3) “address on record” means the address of the recipient as
available in the records of the supplier;
(4) “adjudicating authority” means any authority, appointed or
authorized to pass any order or decisi on under this Act, but
does not include the Commissioner, the Revisional Authority,
the Authority for Advance Ruling, the Appellate Authority for
Advance Ruling, the Appellate Authority and the Appellate
Tribunal;
(5) “agent” means a person, including a f actor, broker, commission
agent, arhatia, del credere agent, an auctioneer or any other
mercantile agent, by whatever name called, who carries on the
business of supply or receipt of goods or services or both on behalf
of another;
(6) “aggregate turnover” means the aggregate value of all taxable
supplies (excluding the value of inward supplies on which tax is
payable by a person on reverse charge basis), exempt supplies,
exports of goods or services or both and inter - State supplies of
persons having the sam e Permanent Account Number, to be
computed on all India basis but excludes central tax, State tax,
Union territory tax, integrated tax and cess;
(7) “agriculturist” means an individual or a Hindu Undivided Family
who undertakes cultivation of land -
(a) by own labour; or
(b) by the labour of family; or
(c) by servants on wages payable in cash or kind or by hired
labour under personal supervision or the personal
supervision of any member of the family;
(8) “Appellate Authority” means an authority appointed or
authorized to hear appeals as referred to in section 107;
(9) “Appellate Tribunal” means the Goods and Services Tax
Appellate Tribunal referred to in section 109;
(10) “appointed day” means the date on which the provisions of this
Act shall come into f orce;

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1205
(11) “assessment” means determination of tax liability under this Act
and includes self - assessment, re - assessment, provisional
assessment, summary assessment and best judgement assessment;
(12) “associated enterprises” shall have the same meaning
a s assigned to it in section 92A of the Income Tax Act, 1961
(Central Act 43 of 1961);
(13) “audit” means the examination of records, returns and other
documents maintained or furnished by the registered person under this
Act or the rules made thereunder o r under any other law for the time
being in force to verify the correctness of turnover declared, taxes paid,
refund claimed and input tax credit availed and to assess his compliance
with the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder;
(14) “autho rized bank” shall mean a bank or a branch of a bank authorized by
the Government to collect the tax or any other amount payable under this
Act;
(15) “authorized representative” means the representative as referred to under
section 116;
(16) “Board” means the Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted
under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (Central Act 54 of
1963);
(17) “business” includes -
(a) any trade, commerce, manufacture, profession, vocation,
adventure, wager or any other similar activity , whether or not it is
for a pecuniary benefit;
(b) any activity or transaction in connection with or incidental or
ancillary to sub - clause (a);
(c) any activity or transaction in the nature of sub - clause (a), whether
or not there is volume, frequency, con tinuity or regularity of such
transaction;
(d) supply or acquisition of goods including capital goods and
services in connection with commencement or closure of
business;
(e) provision by a club, association, society, or any such body (for a
subscription o r any other consideration) of the facilities or
benefits to its members;
(f) admission, for a consideration, of persons to any premises;
(g) services supplied by a person as the holder of any office which
has been accepted by him in the course or furtheran ce of his trade,
profession or vocation;
(h) services provided by a race club by way of totalisator or a licence
to book maker in such club; and
(i) any activity or transaction undertaken by the Central
Government, a State Government or any local authority in which
they are engaged as public authorities;

1206 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(18) “business vertical” means a distinguishable component of an enterprise
that is engaged in the supply of individual goods or services or a group
of related goods or services which is subject to risks and returns that are
different from those of the other business verticals.
Explanation. — For the purposes of this clause, factors that should be
considered in determining whether goods or services
are related include -
(a) the nature of the goods or services ;
(b) the nature of the production processes;
(c) the type or class of customers for the goods or services;
(d) the methods used to distribute the goods or supply of
services; and
(e) the nature of regulatory environment (wherever applicable),
including banking, insurance, or public utilities;
(19) “capital goods” means goods, the value of which is capitalized in
the books of account of the person claiming the input tax credit
and which are used or intended to be used in the course or furtherance
of business;
(20) “casual ta xable person” means a person who occasionally undertakes
transactions involving supply of goods or services or both in the course
or furtherance of business, whether as principal, agent or in any other
capacity, in the taxable territory where he has no fix ed place of
business;
(21) “central tax” means the central goods and services tax levied under
section 9 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act
12 of 2017);
(22) “cess” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Goods and
Se rvices Tax (Compensation to States) Act, 2017 (Central Act 15 of
2017);
(23) “chartered accountant” means a chartered accountant as defined in
clause (b) of sub - section (1) of section 2 of the Chartered Accountants
Act, 1949 (Central Act 38 of 1949);
(24) “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of State tax appointed under
section 3 and includes the Principal Commissioner or Chief
Commissioner of State tax appointed under section 3;
(25) “Commissioner in the Board” means the Commissioner referred to in
sectio n 168 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central
Act 12 of 2017);
(26) “common portal” means the common goods and services tax electronic
portal referred to in section 146;
(27) “common working days” shall mean such days in succession which a re
not declared as gazetted holidays by the Central Government or the
Government of Haryana;
(28) “company secretary” means a company secretary as defined in clause
(c) of sub - section (1) of section 2 of the Company Secretaries Act,
1980 (Central Act 56 of 1980);

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1207
(29) “competent authority” means such authority as may be notified by the
Government;
(30) “composite supply” means a supply made by a taxable person to a
recipient consisting of two or more taxable supplies of goods or services
or both, or any co mbination thereof, which are naturally bundled and
supplied in conjunction with each other in the ordinary course of
business, one of which is a principal supply;
Illustration. — Where goods are packed and transported with
insurance, the supply of goods, pa cking materials,
transport and insurance is a composite supply and
supply of goods is a principal supply;
(31) “consideration” in relation to the supply of goods or services or
both includes -
(a) any payment made or to be made, whether in money or
otherwis e, in respect of, in response to, or for the inducement
of, the supply of goods or services or both, whether by the
recipient or by any other person but shall not include any
subsidy given by the Central Government or a State
Government;
(b) the monetary v alue of any act or forbearance, in respect of, in
response to, or for the inducement of, the supply of goods or
services or both, whether by the recipient or by any other
person but shall not include any subsidy given by the Central
Government or a State G overnment:
Provided that a deposit given in respect of the supply
of goods or services or both shall not be considered as
payment made for such supply unless the supplier applies
such deposit as consideration for the said supply;
(32) “continuous supply of goods” means a supply of goods which is
provided, or agree d to be provided, continuously or on recurrent
basis, under a contract, whether or not by means of a wire, cable,
pipeline or other conduit, and for which the supplier invoices the
recipient on a r egular or periodic basis and includes supply of such
goods as the Government may, subject to such conditions, as it
may, by notification, specify;
(33) “continuous supply of services” means a supply of services which
is provided, or agreed to be provided, continuously or on recurrent
basis, under a contract, for a period exceeding three months with
periodic payment obligations and includes supply of such services
as the Government may, subject to such conditions, as it may, by
notification, specify;
(34) “ conveyance” includes a vessel, an aircraft and a vehicle;
(35) “cost accountant” means a cost accountant as defined in clause (c)
of sub - section (1) of section 2 of the Cost and Works Accountants
Act, 1959 (Central Act 23 of 1959);

1208 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(36) “Council” mean s the Goods and Services Tax Council established
under article 279A of the Constitution;
(37) “credit note” means a document issued by a registered person
under sub - section (1) of section 34;
(38) “debit note” means a document issued by a registered person
under sub - section (3) of section 34;
(39) “deemed exports” means such supplies of goods as may be
notified under section 147;
(40) “designated authority” means such authority as may be notified by
the Commissioner;
(41) “document” includes written or prin ted record of any sort and
electronic record as defined in clause (t) of section 2 of the
Information Technology Act, 2000 (Central Act 21 of 2000);
(42) “drawback” in relation to any goods manufactured in India and
exported, means the rebate of duty, tax or cess chargeable on any
imported inputs or on any domestic inputs or input services used
in the manufacture of such goods;
(43) “electronic cash ledger” means the electronic cash ledger referred
to in sub - section (1) of section 49;
(44) “electronic comme rce” means the supply of goods or services or
both, including digital products over digital or electronic network;
(45) “electronic commerce operator” means any person who owns,
operates or manages digital or electronic facility or platform for
electronic commerce;
(46) “electronic credit ledger” means the electronic credit ledger
referred to in sub - section (2) of section 49;
(47) “exempt supply” means supply of any goods or services or both
which attracts nil rate of tax or which may be wholly exempt from
tax under section 11, or under section 6 of the Integrated Goods
and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 13 of 2017), and
includes non - taxable supply;
(48) “existing law” means any law, notification, order, rule or
regulation relating to levy and collecti on of duty or tax on goods
or services or both passed or made before the commencement of
this Act by the Legislature or any Authority or person having the
power to make such law, notification, order, rule or regulation;
(49) “family” means, -
(i) the spouse and children of the person; and
(ii) the parents, grand - parents, brothers and sisters of the person
if they are wholly or mainly dependent on the said person;
(50) “fixed establishment” means a place (other than the registered
place of business) which is characterised by a sufficient degree of
permanence and suitable structure in terms of human and
technical resources to supply services, or to receive and use

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1209
services for its own needs;

1210 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(51) “fund” means the Consumer Welfare Fund established under
section 57;
(52) “goods” means every kind of movable property other than money
and securities but includes actionable claim, growing crops, grass
and things attached to or forming part of the land which are agreed
to be severed before supply or under a contract o f supply;
(53) “Government” means the Government of the State of Haryana;
(54) “Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act” means the
Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act, 2017
(Central Act 15 of 2017);
(55) “goods and services tax practitioner” means any person who has
been approved under section 48 to act as such practitioner;
(56) “India” means the territory of India as referred to in article 1 of the
Constitution, its territorial waters, seabed and sub - soil underlying
such waters , continental shelf, exclusive economic zone or any
other maritime zone as referred to in the Territorial Waters,
Continental Shelf, Exclusive Economic Zone and other Maritime
Zones Act, 1976 (Central Act 80 of 1976), and the air space above
its territory and territorial waters;
(57) “Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act” means the Integrated
Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 13 of 2017);
(58) “integrated tax” means the integrated goods and services
tax levied under the Integrated Goods and Se rvices Tax Act, 2017
(Central Act 13 of 2017);
(59) “input” means any goods other than capital goods used or intended
to be used by a supplier in the course or furtherance of business;
(60) “input service” means any service used or intended to be used by a
supplier in the course or furtherance of business;
(61) “Input Service Distributor” means an office of the supplier of
goods or services or both which received tax invoices issued under
section 31 towards the receipt of input services and issued a
prescr ibed document for the purposes of distributing the credit of
Central Tax, State Tax, Integrated Tax or Union Territory Tax paid
on the said services to a supplier of taxable goods or services or
both having the same Permanent Account Number as that of the
said office;
(62) “input tax” in relation to a registered person, means the Central
Tax, State Tax, Integrated Tax or Union Territorial Tax charged on
any supply of goods or services or both made to him and includes -
(a) the integrated goods and services t ax charged on import of
goods;
(b) the tax payable under the provisions of sub - sections (3) and
(4) of section 9;
(c) the tax payable under the provisions of sub - section (3) and
(4) of section 5 of the Integrated Goods and Services Tax
Act, 2017 (Central Act 13 of 2017);or

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1211
(d) the tax payable under the provisions of sub - section (3) and
(4) of section 9 of the Central Goods and Service Tax Act,
2017 (Central Act 12 of 2017),
but does not include the tax paid under the composition levy;
(63) “input tax cr edit” means the credit of input tax;
(64) “intra - State supply of goods” shall have the same meaning as
assigned to it in section 8 of the Integrated Goods and Services
Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 13 of 2017);
(65) “intra - State supply of services” shall have the same meaning as
assigned to it in section 8 of the Integrated Goods and Services
Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 13 of 2017);
(66) “invoice” or “tax invoice” means the tax invoice referred to in
section 31;
(67) “inward supply” in relation to a person, sha ll mean receipt of
goods or services or both whether by purchase, acquisition or any
other means, with or without consideration;
(68) “job work” means any treatment or process undertaken by a
person on goods belonging to another registered person and the
e xpression “job worker” shall be construed accordingly;
(69) “local authority” means -
(a) a “Panchayat” as defined in clause (d) of article 243 of the
constitution;
(b) a “Municipality” as defined in clause (e) of article 243P of
the Constitution;
(c) a Mun icipal Committee, a Zila Parishad, a District Board,
and any other authority legally entitled to, or entrusted by
the Central Government or any State Government with the
control or management of a municipal or local fund;
(d) a Cantonment Board as defined in section 3 of the
Cantonments Act, 2006 (Central Act 41 of 2006);
(e) a Regional Council or a District Counc i l constituted under
the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution;
(f) a Development Board constituted under article 371 of the
Constitution; or
(g) a R egional Council constituted under article 371A of the
Constitution;
(70) “location of the recipient of services” means, -
(a) where a supply is received at a place of business for which
the registration has been obtained, the location of such place

1212 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
of busin ess;
(b) where a supply is received at a place other than the place of
business for which registration has been obtained (a fixed
establishment elsewhere), the location of such fixed
establishment;
(c) where a supply is received at more than one establis hment,
whether the place of business or fixed establishment, the
location of the establishment most directly concerned with
the receipt of the supply; and
(d) in absence of such places, the location of the usual place of
residence of the recipient;
(71) “l ocation of the supplier of services” means, -
(a) where a supply is made from a place of business for which
the registration has been obtained, the location of such place
of business;
(b) where a supply is made from a place other than the place of
business for which registration has been obtained
(a fixed establishment elsewhere), the location of such fixed
establishment;
(c) where a supply is made from more than one establishment,
whether the place of business or fixed establishment, the
location of the es tablishment most directly concerned with
the provisions of the supply; and
(d) in absence of such placed, the location of the usual place of
residence of the supplier;
(72) “manufacture” means processing of raw material or inputs in any
manner that results in emergence of a new product having a
distinct name, character and use and the term “manufacturer” shall
be construed accordingly;
(73) “market value” shall mean the full amount which a recipient of a
supply is required to pay in order to obtain the good s or services or
both of like kind and quality at or about the same time and at the
same commercial level where the recipient and the supplier are not
related;
(74) “mixed supply” means two or more individual supplies of goods or
services, or any combinati on thereof, made in conjunction with
each other by a taxable person for a single price where such supply
does not constitute a composite supply:
Illustration. — A supply of a package consisting of canned foods,
sweets, chocolates, cakes, dry fruits, aerated drinks
and fruit juices when supplied for a single price is
a mixed supply. Each of these items can be
supplied separately and is not dependent on any
other. It shall not be a mixed supply if these items

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1213
are supplied separately;
(75) “money” means th e Indian legal tender or any foreign currency,
cheque, promissory note, bill of exchange, letter of credit, draft,
pay order, traveller cheque, money order, postal or electronic
remittance or any other instrument recognized by the Reserve
Bank of India whe n used as a consideration to settle an obligation
or exchange with Indian legal tender of another denomination but
shall not include any currency that is held for its numismatic
value;
(76) “motor vehicle” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
c lause (28) of section 2 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central
Act 59 of 1988);
(77) “non - resident taxable person” means any person who occasionally
undertakes transactions involving supply of goods or services or
both, whether as principal or agent or i n any other capacity, but
who has no fixed place of business or residence in India;
(78) “non - taxable supply” means a supply of goods or services or both
which is not leviable to tax under this Act or under the Integrated
Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 ( Central Act 13 of 2017);
(79) “non - taxable territory” means the territory which is outside the
taxable territory;
(80) “notification” means a notification published in the Official
Gazette and the expressions ‘notify’ and ‘notified’ shall be
construed acco rdingly;
(81) “other territory” includes territories other than those comprising in
a State and those referred to in sub - clauses (a) to (e) of clause
(114);
(82) “output tax” in relation to a taxable person, means the tax
chargeable under this Act on taxab le supply of goods or services
or both made by him or by his agent but excludes tax payable by
him on reverse charge basis;
(83) “outward supply” in relation to a taxable person, means supply of
goods or services or both, whether by sale, transfer, barter ,
exchange, licence, rental, lease or disposal or any other mode,
made or agreed to be made by such person in the course or
furtherance of business;
(84) “person” includes -
(a) an individual;
(b) a Hindu Undivided Family;
(c) a company;
(d) a firm;
(e) a L imited Liability Partnership;

1214 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(f) an association of persons or a body of individuals, whether
incorporated or not in India or outside India;
(g) any corporation established by or under any Central Act,
State Act or Provincial Act or a Government company a s
defined in clause (45) of section 2 of the Companies Act,
2013 (Central Act 18 of 2013);
(h) any body corporate incorporated by or under the laws of a
country outside India;
(i) a co - operative society registered under any law relating to
co - operative soc ieties;
(j) a local authority;
(k) Central Government or a State Government;
(l) society as defined under the Societies Registration Act,
1860 (Central Act 21 of 1860);
(m) trust; and
(n) every artificial juridical person, not falling within any of
the abo ve;
(85) “place of business” includes -
(a) a place from where the business is ordinarily carried on,
and includes a warehouse, a godwon or any other place
where a taxable person stores his goods, supplies or
receives goods or services or both; or
(b) a p lace where a taxable person maintains his books of
account; or
(c) a place where a taxable person is engaged in business
through an agent, by whatever name called;
(86) “place of supply” means the place of supply as referred to in
Chapter V of the Integrat ed Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017
(Central Act 13 of 2017);
(87) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act on
the recommendations of the Council;
(88) “principal” means a person on whose behalf an agent carries on
the business of supply or receipt of goods or services or both;
(89) “principal place of business” means the place of business
specified as the principal place of business in the certificate of
registration;
(90) “principal supply” means the supply of goods or services which
con stitutes the predominant element of a composite supply and to
which any other supply forming part of that composite supply is
ancillary;
(91) “proper officer” in relation to any function to be performed under
this Act, means the Commissioner or the officer of the State tax
who is assigned that function by the Commissioner;
(92) “quarter” shall mean a period comprising three consecutive

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1215
calendar months, ending on the last day of March, June,
September and December of a calendar year;
(93) “recipient” of supply of goods or services or both, means -
(a) where a consideration is payable for the supply of goods or
services or both, the person who is liable to pay that
consideration;
(b) where no consideration is payable for the supply of goods,
the person to w hom the goods are delivered or made
available, or to whom possession or use of the goods is
given or made available; and
(c) where no consideration is payable for the supply of a
service, the person to whom the service is rendered,
and any reference to a person to whom a supply is made s
hall be construed as a reference to the recipient of the supply and
shall include an agent acting as such on behalf of the recipient in
relation to the goods or services or both supplied;
(94) “registe red person” means a person who is registered under
section 25 but does not include a person having a Unique Identity
Number;
(95) “regulations” means the regulations made by the Government
under this Act on the recommendations of the Council;
(96) “removal ” in relation to goods, means -
(a) despatch of the goods for delivery by the supplier thereof or
by any other person acting on behalf of such supplier; or
(b) collection of the goods by the recipient thereof or by any
other person acting on behalf of such recipient;
(97) “return” means any return prescribed or otherwise required to be
furnished by or under this Act or the rules made thereunder;
(98) “reverse charge” means the liability to pay tax by the recipient of
supply of goods or services or both inste ad of the supplier of such
goods or services or both under sub - section (3) or sub - section (4)
of section 9, or under sub - section (3) or sub - section (4) of section
5 of the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central
Act 13 of 2017);
(99) “Revision al Authority” means an authority appointed or
authorized for revision of decision or orders as referred to in
section 108;
(100) “Schedule” means a Schedule appended to this Act;
(101) “securities” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
clause (h ) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation)
Act, 1956 (Central Act 42 of 1956);
(102) “Services” means anything other than goods, money and
securities but includes activities relating to the use of money or its
conversion by cash or by any othe r mode, from one form,
currency or denomination, to another form, currency or

1216 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
denomination for which a separate consideration is charged;
(103) “State” means the State of Haryana;
(104) “state tax” means the tax levied under this Act;
(105) “supplier” in relation to any goods or services or both, shall mean
the person supplying the said goods or services or both and shall
include an agent acting as such on behalf of such supplier in
relation to the goods or services or both supplied;
(106) “tax period” mea ns the period for which the return is required to
be furnished;
(107) “taxable person” means a person who is registered or liable to be
registered under section 22 or section 24;
(108) “taxable supply” means a supply of goods or services or both
which is leviable to tax under this Act;
(109) “taxable territory” means the territory to which the provisions of
this Act apply;
(110) “telecommunication service” means service of any description
(including e lectronic mail, voice mail, data services, audio text
se rvices, video text services, radio paging and cellular mobile
telephone services) which is made available to users by means of
any transmission or reception of signs, signals, writing, images
and sound or intelligence of any nature, by wire, radio, visual or
other electromagnetic means;
(111) “the Central Goods and Services Tax Act” means the Central
Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of 2017);
(112) “turnover in State” means the aggregate value of all taxable
supplies (excluding the value of inward supplies on which tax is
payable by a person on reverse charge basis) and exempt supplies
made within a State by a taxable person, exports of goods or
services or both and inter - State supplies of goods or services or
both made from the State by the said taxable person but excludes
Central Tax, State Tax, Union Territory Tax, Integrated Tax and
cess;
(113) “usual place of residence” means -
(a) in case of an individual, the place where he ordinarily
resides;
(b) in other cases, the place where the per son is incorporated
or otherwise legally constituted;
(114) “Union territory” means the territory of, -
(a) the Andaman and Nicobar Islands;
(b) Lakshadweep;
(c) Dadra and Nagar Haveli;
(d) Daman and Diu;
(e) Chandigarh; and

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1217
(f) other territory;
Explanat ion. — For the purposes of this Act, each of the
territories specified in sub - clauses (a) to (f)
shall be considered to be a separate Union
territory;
(115) “Union territory tax” means the Union territory goods and
services tax levied under the Union Territ ory Goods and Services
Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 14 of 2017);
(116) “Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Act” means the Union
Territory Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 14 of
2017);
(117) “valid return” means a return furnished under sub - s ection (1) of
section 39 on which self - assessed tax has been paid in full;
(118) “voucher” means an instrument where there is an obligation to
accept it as consideration or part consideration for a supply of
goods or services or both and where the goods or services or both
to be supplied or the identities of their potential suppliers are
either indicated on the instrument itself or in related
documentation, including the terms and conditions of use of such
instrument;
(119) “works contract” means a contract for building, construction,
fabrication, completion, erection, installation, fitting out,
improvement, modification, repair, maintenance, renovation,
alteration or commissioning of any immovable property wherein
transfer of property in goods (whether as g oods or in some other
form) is involved in the execution of such contract;
(120) words and expressions used and not defined in this Act but
defined in the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017
(Central Act 13 of 2017), the Central Goods and Services Tax
Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of 2017), the Union Territory Goods
and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 14 of 2017) and the
Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act, 2017
(Central Act 15 of 2017) shall have the same meanings as
assigned to th em respectively in those Acts.
CHAPTER II
ADMINISTRATION
Officers under this 3. The Government shall, by notification , appoint the following classes of
Act. officers for the purposes of this Act, namely: -
(a) Principal Commissioner or Chief Commissioner or
Commissioner of State tax;
(b) Special Commissioners of State tax;
(c) Additional Commissioners of State tax;

1218 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(d) Joint Commissioners of State tax;
(e) Deputy Commissioners of State tax;
(f) Assistant Commissioners of State tax;
(g) Excise & Taxation Officer of the State tax;
(h) Assistant Excise & Taxatio n Officer of the State tax; and
(i) any other class of officers as it may deem fit:
Provided that, the officers appointed under the Haryana Value Added
Tax Act, 2003 (6 of 2003) shall be deemed to be the officers appointed under
the provisions of this Act.
4. (1) The Government may, in addition to the officers as may be Appointment of
notified under section 3, appoint such persons as it may think fit to be the officers.
officers under this Act.
(2) The Commissioner shall have jurisdiction over the whole of the
State, the Special Commissioner and an Additional Commissioner in respect
of all or any of the functions assigned to them, shall have jurisdiction over the
whole of the State or where the Government so directs, over any local area
thereof, and all other officers shall, subject to such conditions as may be
specified, have jurisdiction over the whole of the State or over such local
areas as the Commissioner may, by order, specify.
5. (1) Subjec t to such conditions and limitations as the Commissioner Powers of officers.
may impose, an officer of State tax may exercise the powers and discharge
the duties conferred or imposed on him under this Act.
(2) An officer of State tax may exercise the powers and discharge
the duties conferred or imposed under this Act on any other officer of State
tax who is subordinate to him.
(3) The Commissioner may, subject to such conditions and
limitations as may be specified in this behalf by him, delegate his powers to
any other offic er who is subordinate to him.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, an
Appellate Authority shall not exercise the powers and discharge the duties
conferred or imposed on any other officer of State tax.
6. (1) With out prejudice to the provisions of this Act, the officers Authorisation of
appointed under the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act officers of central
tax as proper
12 of 2017) are authorised to be the proper officers for the purposes of this officer in certain
Act, subject to such conditions as the Governm ent shall, on the circumstances.
recommendations of the Council, by notification, specify.
(2) Subject to the conditions specified in the notification issued
under sub - section (1), -
(a) where any proper officer issues an order under this Act,
he shall also issue an orde r under the Central Goods and
Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of 2017) as

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1219
authorised by the said Act under intimation to the
jurisdictional officer of central tax;
(b) where a proper officer under the Central Goods and
Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of 2017) has
initiated any proceedings on a subject matter, no
proceedings shall be initiated by the proper officer
under this Act on the same subject matter.
(3) Any proceedings for rectification, appeal and revision,
wherever applicable, of any order passed by an officer appointed under this
Act, shall not lie before an officer appointed under the Central Goods and
Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of 201 7).
CHAPTER III
LEVY AND COLLECTION OF TAX
Scope of supply. 7. (1) For the purposes of this Act, the expression “supply” includes -
(a) all forms of supply of goods or services or both such as
sale, transfer, barter, exchange, license, rental, lease or
disposal made or agreed to be made for a consideration
by a person in the course or furtherance of business;
(b) import of services for a consideration whether or not in
the course or furtherance of business;
(c) the activities specified in Schedule I, ma de or agreed to
be made without a consideration; and
(d) the activities to be treated as supply of goods or supply
of services as referred to in Schedule II.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - section (1), -
(a) activities or transactions specif ied in Schedule III; or
(b) such activities or transactions undertaken by the Central
Government, a State Government or any local authority
in which they are engaged as public authorities, as may
be notified by the Government on the recommendations
of the Council,
shall be treated neither as a supply of goods nor a supply of
services.
(3) Subject to the provisions of sub - sections (1) and (2), the
Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, specify, by
notification, the transactions that are to be treated as -

1220 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(a) a supply of goods and not as a supply of services; or
(b) a supply of services and not as a supply of goods.
8. The tax liability on a composite or a mixed supply shall be Tax liability on
determined in the following manner, namely: - composite and mixed
supplies.
(a) a composite s upply comprising two or more supplies, one of
which is a principal supply, shall be treated as a supply of
such principal supply; and
(b) a mixed supply comprising two or more supplies shall be
treated as a supply of that particular supply which attracts the
highest rate of tax.
9. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub - section (2), there shall be Levy and collection.
levied a tax called the Haryana Goods and Services Tax on all intra - State
supplies of goods or services or both, e xcept on the supply of alcoholic
liquor for human consumption, on the value determined under section 15
and at such rates, not exceeding twenty percent , as may be notified by the
Government on the recommendations of the Council and collected in such
manner , as may be prescribed and shall be paid by the taxable person.
(2) The State tax on the supply of petroleum crude, high speed diesel,
motor spirit (commonly known as petrol), natural gas and aviation turbine
fuel, shall be levied with effect from such da te, as may be notified by the
Government on the recommendations of the Council.
(3) The Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, by
notification, specify categories of supply of goods or services or both, the
tax on which shall be paid on re verse charge basis by the recipient of such
goods or services or both and all the provisions of this Act shall apply to
such recipient as if he is the person liable for paying the tax in relation to
the supply of such goods or services or both.
(4) The S tate tax in respect of the supply of taxable goods or services
or both by a supplier, who is not registered, to a registered person shall be
paid by such person on reverse charge basis as the recipient and all the
provisions of this Act shall apply to such recipient as if he is the person
liable for paying the tax in relation to the supply of such goods or services
or both.
(5) The Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, by
notification, specify categories of services the tax on intra - State supplies of
which shall be paid by the electronic commerce operator if such services are
supplied through it, and all the provisions of this Act shall apply to such
electronic commerce operator as if he is the supplier liable for paying the
tax in relatio n to the supply of such services:
Provided that where an electronic commerce operator does not
have a physical presence in the taxable territory, any person representing
such electronic commerce operator for any purpose in the taxable territory

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1221
shall be liable to pay tax:
Provided further that where an electronic commerce operator
does not have a physical presence in the taxable territory and also he does
not have a representative in the said territory, such electronic commerce
o perator shall appoint a person in the taxable territory for the purpose of
paying tax and such person shall be liable to pay tax.
Composition levy. 10. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act
but subject to the provisions of su b - sections (3) and (4) of section 9, a
registered person, whose aggregate turnover in the preceding financial year
did not exceed fifty lakh rupees may opt to pay, in lieu of the tax payable by
him, an amount calculated at such rate, as may be prescribed, but not
exceeding, -
(a) one percent of the turnover in State in case of a
manufacturer;
(b) two and a half percent of the turnover in State in case of
persons engaged in making supplies referred to in clause (b)
of paragraph 6 of Schedule II; and
(c) half percent of the turnover in State in case of other
suppliers,
subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be prescribed:
Provided that the Government may, by notification, increase the
said limit of fifty lakh rupees to such higher amount, not excee ding one crore
rupees, as may be recommended by the Council.
(2) The registered person shall be eligible to opt under
sub - section (1), i f. –
(a) he is not engaged in the supply of services other than
supplies referred to in clause (b) of paragraph 6 of Sc hedule
II;
(b) he is not engaged in making any supply of goods which are
not leviable to tax under this Act;
(c) he is not engaged in making any inter - State outward
supplies of goods;
(d) he is not engaged in making any supply of goods through an
electron ic commerce operator who is required to collect tax
at source under section 52; and
(e) he is not a manufacturer of such goods, as may be notified
by the Government, on the recommendations of the
Council:
Provided that where more than one registered person s are having
the same Permanent Account Number (issued under the Income - tax Act,
1961) (Central Act 43 of 1961), the registered person shall not be eligible to

1222 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
opt for the scheme under sub - section (1) unless all such registered persons
opt to pay tax under that sub - section.
(3) The option availed of by a registered person under sub - section (1)
shall lapse with effect from the day on which his aggregate turnover during a
financial year exceeds the limit specified under sub - section (1).
(4) A taxable pers on to whom the provisions of sub - section (1) apply
shall not collect any tax from the recipient on supplies made by him nor shall
he be entitled to any credit of input tax.
(5) If the proper officer has reasons to believe that a taxable person
has paid ta x under sub - section (1) despite not being eligible, such person
shall, in addition to any tax that may be payable by him under any other
provisions of this Act, be liable to a penalty and the provisions of section 73
or section 74 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply for determination of tax and
penalty.
11. (1) Where the Government is satisfied that it is necessary in the Power to grant
public interest so to do, it may, on the recommendations of the Council, by exemption from
tax.
notification, exempt generally, either absolutely or subject t o such conditions
as may be specified therein, goods or services or both of any specified
description from the whole or any part of the tax leviable thereon with effect
from such date as may be specified in such notification.
(2) Where the Government is satisfied that it is necessary in the public
interest so to do, it may, on the recommendations of the Council, by special
order in each case, under circumstances of an exceptional nature to be stated
in such order, exempt from payment of tax any goods or s ervices or both on
which tax is leviable.
(3) The Government may, if it considers necessary or expedient so to
do for the purpose of clarifying the scope or applicability of any notification
issued under sub - section (1) or order issued under sub - section (2), insert an
explanation in such notification or order, as the case may be, by notification
at any time within one year of issue of the notification under sub - section (1)
or order under sub - section (2), and every such explanation shall have effect as
if it had always been the part of the first such notification or order, as the case
may be.
(4) Any notification issued by the Central Government, on the
recommendations of the Council, under sub - section (1) of section 11 or order
issued under sub - section ( 2) of the said section of the Central Goods and
Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of 2017) shall be deemed to be a
notification or, as the case may be, an order issued under this Act.
Explanation. — For the purposes of this section, where an
exemption in respect of any goods or services or
both from the whole or part of the tax leviable
thereon has been granted absolutely, the
registered person supplying such goods or
services or both shall not collect the tax, in

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1223
excess of the effective rate, on such s upply of
goods or services or both.
CHAPTER IV
TIME AND VALUE OF SUPPLY
Time of supply of 12. (1) The liability to pay tax on goods shall arise at the time of supply,
goods. as determined in accordance with the provis ions of this section.
(2) The time of supply of goods shall be the earlier of the following
dates, namely: -
(a) the date of issue of invoice by the supplier or the last date on
which he is required, under sub - section (1) of section 31, to
issue the invoi ce with respect to the supply; or
(b) the date on which the supplier receives the payment with
respect to the supply:
Provided that where the supplier of taxable goods receives an
amount up to one thousand rupees in excess of the amount indicated in the
tax invoice, the time of supply to the extent of such excess amount shall, at
the option of the said supplier, be the date of issue of invoice in respect of
such excess amount.
Explanation 1. — For the purposes of clauses (a) and (b),
“supply” shall be dee med to have been made
to the extent it is covered by the invoice or, a s
the case may be, the payment.
Explanation 2. — For the purposes of clause (b), “the date on
which the supplier receives the payment” shall
be the date on which the payment is entered in
his books of account or the date on which the
payment is credited to his bank account,
whichever is earlier.
(3) In case of supplies in respect of which tax is paid or liable to be
paid on reverse charge basis, the time of supply shall be the earliest of the
following dates , namely: —
(a) the date of the receipt of goods; or
(b) the date of payment as entered in the books of account of the
recipient or the date on which the payment is debited in his
bank account, whichever is earlier; or
(c) the date immed iately following thirty days from the date of
issue of invoice or any other document, by whatever name
called, in lieu thereof by the supplier:
Provided that where it is not possible to determine the time of
supply under clause (a) or clause (b) or cla use (c), the time of supply shall be
the date of entry in the books of account of the recipient of supply.
(4) In case of supply of vouchers by a supplier, the time of supply
shall be -

1224 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(a) the date of issue of voucher, if the supply is identifiable at
tha t point; or
(b) the date of redemption of voucher, in all other cases.
(5) Where it is not possible to determine the time of supply under the
provisions of sub - section (2) or sub - section (3) or sub - section (4), the time
of supply shall -
(a) in a case whe re a periodical return has to be filed, be the
date on which such return is to be filed; or
(b) in any other case, be the date on which the tax is paid.
(6) The time of supply to the extent it relates to an addition in the
value of supply by way of inte rest, late fee or penalty for delayed payment
of any consideration shall be the date on which the supplier receives such
addition in value.
13. (1) The liability to pay tax on services shall arise at the time of Time of supply of
supply, as determined in accordance with the provisions of this section. services.
(2) The time of supply of services shall be the earliest of the
following dates, namely: –
(a) the date of issue of invoice by the supplier, if the invoice is
issued within the period prescribed under sub - section (2) of
sect ion 31 or the date of receipt of payment, whichever is
earlier; or
(b) the date of provision of service, if the invoice is not issued
within the period prescribed under sub - section (2) of
section 31 or the date of receipt of payment, whichever is
earlier; or
(c) the date on which the recipient shows the receipt of services
in his books of account, in a case where the provisions of
clause (a) or clause (b) do not apply:
Provided that where the supplier of taxable service receives an
amount upto one thousan d rupees in excess of the amount indicated in the
tax invoice, the time of supply to the extent of such excess amount shall, at
the option of the said supplier, be the date of issue of invoice relating to
such excess amount.
Explanation. — For the purpose s of clauses (a) and (b) -
(i) the supply shall be deemed to have been
made to the extent it is covered by the
invoice or, as the case may be, the payment;
(ii) “the date of receipt of payment” shall be the
date on which the payment is entered in the
books of accou nt of the supplier or the date
on which the payment is credited to his
bank account, whichever is earlier.
(3) In case of supplies in respect of which tax is paid or liable to be

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1225
paid on reverse charge basis, the time of supply shall be the earlier of the
following dates, namely: ––
(a) the date of payment as entered in the books of account of the
recipient or the date on which the payment is debited in his
bank account, whichever is earlier, or
(b) the date immediately followi ng sixty days from the date of
issue of invoice or any other document, by whatever name
called, in lieu thereof by the supplier:
Provided that where it is not possible to determine the time of
supply under clause (a) or clause (b), the time of supply shall be the date of
entry in the books of account of the recipient of supply:
Provided further that in case of supply by associated enterprises,
where the supplier of service is located outside India, the time of supply shall
be the date of entry in the books of account of the recipient of supply or the
date of payment, whichever is earlier.
(4) In case of supply of vouchers by a supplier, the time of supply
shall be -
(a) the date of issue of voucher, if the supply is identifiable at
that point; or
(b) the dat e of redemption of voucher, in all other cases.
(5) Where it is not possible to determine the time of supply under the
provisions of sub - section (2) or sub - section (3) or sub - section (4), the time of
supply shall -
(a) in a case where a periodical return h as to be filed, be the date
on which such return is to be filed; or
(b) in any other case, be the date on which the tax is paid.
(6) The time of supply to the extent it relates to an addition in the
value of supply by way of interest, late fee or penalty for delayed payment of
any consideration shall be the date on which the supplier receives such
addition in value.
Change in rate of 14. Notwithstanding anything contained in section 12 or section 13, the
tax in respect of time of supply, where there is a change in the rate of tax in respect of goods
supply of goods or
services. or services or both, shall be determined in the following manner, namely: –
(a) in case the goods or services or both have been supplied before the
change in rate of tax, ––
(i) where the invoice for the same has been issued and the
payment is also received after the change in rate of tax, the
time of supply shall be the date of receipt of payment or the
date of issue of invoice, whichever is earlier; or
(ii) where the invoice has bee n issued prior to the change in rate
of tax but payment is received after the change in rate of tax,
the time of supply shall be the date of issue of invoice; or
(iii) where the payment has been received before the change in

1226 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
rate of tax, but the invoice f or the same is issued after the
change in rate of tax, the time of supply shall be the date of
receipt of payment;
(b) in case the goods or services or both have been supplied after the
change in rate of tax, ––
(i) where the payment is received after the change in rate of tax
but the invoice has been issued prior to the change in rate of
tax, the time of supply shall be the date of receipt of
payment; or
(ii) where the invoice has been issued and payment is received
before the change in rate of tax, the ti me of supply shall be
the date of receipt of payment or date of issue of invoice,
whichever is earlier; or
(iii) where the invoice has been issued after the change in rate of
tax but the payment is received before the change in rate of
tax, the time of supply sh all be the date of issue of invoice:
Provided that the date of receipt of payment shall be the date of credit
in the bank account if such credit in the bank account is after four working
days from the date of change in the rate of tax.
Explanation. — For t he purposes of this section, “the date of
receipt of payment” shall be the date on which
the payment is entered in the books of account
of the supplier or the date on which the
payment is credited to his bank account,
whichever is earlier.
15. (1) The va lue of a supply of goods or services or both shall be the Value of taxable
transaction value, which is the price actually paid or payable for the said supply
supply of goods or services or both where the supplier and the recipient of
the supply are not related and the price is th e sole consideration for the
supply.
(2) The value of supply shall include –
(a) any taxes, duties, cesses, fees and charges levied under any
law for the time being in force other than this Act, the
Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12
of 2017) and the Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to
States) Act, 2017 (Central Act 15 of 2017) if charged
separately by the supplier;
(b) any amount that the supplier is liable to pay in relation to
such supply but which has been incurred by the recip ient of
the supply and not included in the price actually paid or
payable for the goods or services or both;
(c) incidental expenses, including commission and packing,
charged by the supplier to the recipient of a supply and any

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1227
amount charged for anything done by the supplier in respect
of the supply of goods or services or both at the time of, or
before delivery of goods or supply of services;
(d) interest or late fee or penalty for delayed payment of any
consideration for any su pply; and
(e) subsidies directly linked to the price excluding subsidies
provided by the Central Government and State
Governments.
Explanation. — For the purposes of this sub - section, the amount
of subsidy shall be included in the value of
supply of the sup plier who receives the subsidy.
(3) The value of the supply shall not include any discount which is
given -
(a) before or at the time of the supply if such discount has been
duly recorded in the invoice issued in respect of such supply;
and
(b) after the supply has been effected, if -
(i) such discount is established in terms of an agreement
entered into at or before the time of such supply and
specifically linked to relevant invoices; and
(ii) input tax credit as is attributable to the discount on the
b asis of document issued by the supplier has been
reversed by the recipient of the supply.
(4) Where the value of the supply of goods or services or both cannot
be determined under sub - section (1), the same shall be determined in such
manner, as may be pre scribed.
(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - section (1) or sub -
section (4), the value of such supplies, as may be notified by the Government
on the recommendations of the Council shall be determined in such manner,
as may be prescribed.
E xpla nation. — For the purposes of this Act, -
(a) persons shall be deemed to be “ related persons ’’ if -
(i) such persons are officers or directors of one another's
businesses;
(ii) such persons are legally recognised partners in
business;
(iii) such persons are employer and employee;
(iv) any person directly or indirectly owns, contro ls or
holds twenty - five percent or more of the outstanding

1228 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
voting stock or shares of both of them;
(v) one of them directly or indirectly controls the other;
(vi) both of them are directly or indirectly co ntrolled by a
third person;
(vii) together they directly or indirectly control a third
person; or
(viii) they are members of the same family;
(b) the term "person" also includes legal persons.
(c) persons who are associated in the business of one another in
that o ne is the sole agent or sole distributor or sole
concessionaire, howsoever described, of the other, shall be
deemed to be related .
CHAPTER V
INPUT TAX CREDIT
16. (1) Every registered person shall, subject to such conditions and Eligibility and
restrictions as may be prescribed and in the manner specified in section 49, conditions for taking
input tax credit.
be entitled to take credit of input tax charged on any supply of goods or
services or both to him which are used or intended to be used in the course
or furtherance of his business and the said amount s hall be credited to the
electronic credit ledger of such person.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, no registered
person shall be entitled to the credit of any input tax in respect of any supply
of goods or services or both to him unl ess, ––
(a) he is in possession of a tax invoice or debit note issued by a
supplier registered under this Act, or such other tax paying
documents as may be prescribed;
(b) he has received the goods or services or both.
Explanation. — For the purposes of th is clause, it shall be
deemed that the registered person has received
the goods where the goods are delivered by the
supplier to a recipient or any other person on the
direction of such registered person, whether
acting as an agent or otherwise, before or during
movement of goods, either by way of transfer of
documents of title to goods or otherwise;
(c) subject to the provisions of section 41, the tax charged in
respect of such supply has been actually paid to the
Government, either in cash or through util isation of input
tax credit admissible in respect of the said supply; and
(d) he has furnished the return under section 39:

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1229
Provided that where the goods against an invoice are received in
lots or instalments, the registered person shall be entitled to ta ke credit upon
receipt of the last lot or instalment:
Provided further that where a recipient fails to pay to the supplier
of goods or services or both, other than the supplies on which tax is payab le
on reverse charge basis, the amount towards the value of supply along with
tax payable thereon within a period of one hundred and eighty days from the
date of issue of invoice by the supplier, an amount equal to the input tax
credit availed by the recip ient shall be added to his output tax liability, along
with interest thereon, in such manner as may be prescribed:
Provided also that the recipient shall be entitled to avail of the
credit of input tax on payment made by him of the amount towards the value
of supply of goods or services or both along with tax payable thereon.
(3) Where the registered person has claimed depreciation on the tax
component of the cost of capital goods and plant and machinery under the
provisions of the Income - tax Act, 1961 (Ce ntral Act 43 of 1961), the input
tax credit on the said tax component shall not be allowed.
(4) A registered person shall not be entitled to take input tax credit in
respect of any invoice or debit note for supply of goods or services or both
after the du e date of furnishing of the return under section 39 for the month
of September following the end of financial year to which such invoice or
invoice relating to such debit note pertains or furnishing of the relevant
annual return, whichever is earlier.
Ap portionment of 17. (1) Where the goods or services or both are used by the registered
credit and blocked person partly for the purpose of any business and partly for other purposes, credits.
the amount of credit shall be restricted to so much of the input tax as is
attributable to the purposes of his business.
(2) Where the goods or services or both are used by the registered
person partly for effecting taxable supplies including zero - rated supplies
under this Act or under the Integrated Goods and Service s Tax Act and
partly for effecting exempt supplies under the said Acts, the amount of credit
shall be restricted to so much of the input tax as is attributable to the said
taxable supplies including zero - rated supplies.
(3) The value of exempt supply unde r sub - section (2) shall be such as
may be prescribed, and shall include supplies on which the recipient is liable
to pay tax on reverse charge basis, transactions in securities, sale of land and,
subject to clause (b) of paragraph 5 of Schedule II, sale of building;
(4) A banking company or a financial institution including a non -
banking financial company, engaged in supplying services by way of
accepting deposits, extending loans or advances shall have the option to
either comply with the provisions of su b - section (2), or avail of, every
month, an amount equal to fifty percent of the eligible input tax credit on
inputs, capital goods and input services in that month and the rest shall lapse:

1230 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
Provided that the option once exercised shall not be withdrawn d uring
the remain ing part of the financial year:
Provided further that the restriction of fifty percent shall not apply to
the tax paid on supplies made by one registered person to another registered
person having the same Permanent Account Number.
(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - section (1) of section
16 and sub - section (1) of section 18, input tax credit shall not be available in
respect of the following, namely: -
(a) motor vehicles and other conveyances except when they are
used -
(i) fo r making the following taxable supplies, namely: -
(A) further supply of such vehicles or conveyances;
or
(B) transportation of passengers; or
(C) imparting training on driving, flying, navigating
such vehicles or conveyances;
(ii) for transportation of g oods;
(b) the following supply of goods or services or both: -
(i) food and beverages, outdoor catering, beauty
treatment, health services, cosmetic and plastic
surgery except where an inward supply of goods or
services or both of a particular category is u sed by a
registered person for making an outward taxable
supply of the same category of goods or services or
both or as an element of a taxable composite or mixed
supply;
(ii) membership of a club, health and fitness centre;
(iii) rent - a - cab, life insuran ce and health insurance except
where -
(A) the Government notifies the services which are
obligatory for an employer to provide to its
employees under any law for the time being in
force; or
(B) such inward supply of goods or services or both
of a particul ar category is used by a registered
person for making an outward taxable supply of
the same category of goods or services or both
or as part of a taxable composite or mixed

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1231
supply; and
(iv) travel benefits extended to employees on vacation such
as lea ve or home travel concession.
(c) works contract services when supplied for construction of an
immovable property (other than plant and machinery) except
where it is an input service for further supply of works
contract service;
(d) goods or services or bo th received by a taxable person for
construction of an immovable property (other than plant or
machinery) on his own account including when such goods
or services or both are used in the course or furtherance of
business.
Exp lanation. — For the purposes of clauses (c) and (d), the
exp ression “construction” includes
re - construction, renovation, additions or
alterations or repairs, to the extent of
capitalisation, to the said immovable property;
(e) goods or services or both on which tax has been paid under
se ction 10;
(f) goods or services or both received by a non - resident taxable
person except on goods imported by him;
(g) goods or services or both used for personal consumption;
(h) goods lost, stolen, destroyed, written off or disposed of by
way of gift o r free samples; and
(i) any tax paid in accordance with the provisions of sections
74, 129 and 130.
(6) The Government may prescribe the manner in which the credit
referred to in sub - sections (1) and (2) may be attributed.
Explanation. — For the purposes o f this Chapter and Chapter VI,
the expression “plant and machinery” means
apparatus, equipment, and machinery fixed to
earth by foundation or structural support that are
used for making outward supply of goods or
services or both and includes such foundati on
and structural supports but excludes -
(i) land, building or any other civil structures;

1232 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(ii) telecommunication towers; and
(iii) pipelines laid outside the factory premises.
18. (1) Subject to such conditions and restrictions, as may be Availability of credit
prescribed - in special
circumstances .
( a) a person who has applied for registration under this Act
within thirty days from the date on which he becomes
liable to registration and has been granted such
registration shall be entitled to take credit of input tax in
respect of inputs held in stock and inputs contained in
semi - finished or finished goods held in stock on the day
immediately preceding the date from which he becomes
liable to pay tax under the provisions of this Act;
(b) a person who takes registration under sub - section (3) of
section 2 5 shall be entitled to take credit of input tax in
respect of inputs held in stock and inputs contained in
semi - finished or finished goods held in stock on the day
immediately preceding the date of grant of registration;
(c) where any registered person cea ses to pay tax under
section 10, he shall be entitled to take credit of input tax
in respect of inputs held in stock, inputs contained in
semi - finished or finished goods held in stock and on
capital goods on the day immediately preceding the date
from whic h he becomes liable to pay tax under section 9:
Provided that the credit on capital goods shall be
reduced by such percentage points, as may be
prescribed;
(d) where an exempt supply of goods or services or both by
a registered person becomes a taxable su pply, such
person shall be entitled to take credit of input tax in
respect of inputs held in stock and inputs contained in
semi - finished or finished goods held in stock relatable to
such exempt supply and on capital goods exclusively
used for such exempt s upply on the day immediately
preceding the date from which such supply becomes
taxable:
Provided that the credit on capital goods shall
be reduced by such percentage points, as may be
prescribed.
(2) A registered person shall not be entitled to take inp ut tax
credit under sub - section (1) in respect of any supply of goods or services

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1233
or both to him after the expiry of one year from the date of issue of tax
invoice relating to such supply.
(3) Where ther e is a change in the constitution of a registered person
on account of sale, merger, demerger, amalgamation, lease or transfer of the
business with the specific provisions for transfer of liabilities, the said
registered person shall be allowed to transfer the input tax credit which
remains unutilised in his electronic credit ledger to such sold, merged,
demerged, amalgamated, leased or transferred business in such manner, as
may be prescribed.
(4) Where any registered person who has availed of input tax credit
opts to pay tax under section 10 or, where the goods or services or both
supplied by him become wholly exempt, he shall pay an amount, by way of
debit in the electronic credit ledger or electronic cash ledger, equivalent to
the credit of input tax in respect of inputs held in stock and inputs contained
in semi - finished or finished goods held in stock and on capital goods,
reduced by such percentage points, as may be prescribed, on the day
immediately preceding the date of exercising of such option o r, as the case
may be, the date of such exemption:
Provided that after payment of such amount, the balance of
input tax credit, if any, lying in his electronic credit ledger shall lapse.
(5) The amount of credit under sub - section (1) and the amount paya ble
under sub - section (4) shall be calculated in such manner, as may be
prescribed.
(6) In case of supply of capital goods or plant and machinery, on
which input tax credit has been taken, the registered person shall pay an
amount equal to the input tax credit taken on the said capital goods or plant
and machinery reduced by such percentage points, as may be prescribed or
the tax on the transaction value of such capital goods or plant and machinery
determined under section15, whichever is higher:
Provid ed that where refractory bricks, moulds and dies, jigs and
fixtures are supplied as scrap, the taxable person may pay tax on the
transaction value of such goo ds determined under section 15.
Taking input tax 19. (1) The principal shall, subject to such conditions and restrictions, as
credit in respect of may be prescribed, be allowed input tax credit on inputs sent to a job worker inputs and capital
goods se nt for job for job work.
work. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (b) of sub - section
( 2) of section 16, the principal shall be entitled to take credit of input tax on
inputs even if the inputs are directly sent to a job worker for job work
without being first brought to his place of business.
(3) Where the inputs sent for job work are not received back by the
principal after completion of job work or otherwise or are not supplied from
the place of business of the job worker in accordance with clause (a) or

1234 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
clause (b) of sub - section (1) of section 143 within one year of being sent out,
it sh all be deemed that such inputs had been supplied by the principal to the
job worker on the day when the said inputs were sent out:
Provided that where the inputs are sent directly to a job worker, the
period of one year shall be counted from the date of receipt of inputs by the
job worker.
(4) The principal shall, subject to such conditions and restrictions, as
may be prescribed, be allowed input tax credit on capital goods sent to a job
worker for job work.
(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in cl ause (b) of
sub - section (2) of section 16, the principal shall be entitled to take credit of
input tax on capital goods even if the capital goods are directly sent to a job
worker for job work without being first brought to his place of business.
(6) Whe re the capital goods sent for job work are not received back
by the principal within a period of three years of being sent out, it shall be
deemed that such capital goods had been supplied by the principal to the job
worker on the day when the said capital goods were sent out:
Provided that where the capital goods are sent directly to a job
worker, the period of three years shall be counted from the date of receipt of
capital goods by the job worker .
(7) Nothing contained in sub - section (3) or sub - secti on (6) shall apply
to moulds and dies, jigs and fixtures, or tools sent out to a job worker for
job work.
E xplanation. — For the purpose of this section, “principal” means the
person referred to in section 143.
20. (1) The Input Service Distributor shal l distribute the credit of State Manner of
tax as State tax or integrated tax and integrated tax as integrated tax or State distribution of credit
by Input Service
tax, by way of issue of document containing the amount of input tax credit Distributor.
being distributed in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(2) The I nput Service Distributor may distribute the credit subject to
the following conditions , namely: -
(a) the credit can be distributed to the recipients of credit
against a document containing such details, as may be
prescribed;
(b) the amount of the credit distributed shall not exceed the
amount of credit available for distribution;
(c) the credit of tax paid on input services attributable to a
recipient of credit shall be distributed only to that recipient;
(d) the credit of tax paid on input services att ributable to more
than one recipient of credit shall be distributed amongst
such recipients to whom the input service is attributable

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1235
and such distribution shall be pro rata on the basis of the
turnover in a State or turnover in a Union territory of su ch
recipient, during the relevant
period, to the aggregate of the turnover of all such recipients
to whom such input service is attributable and which are
operational in the current yea r, during the said relevant
period;
(e) the credit of tax paid on input services attributable to all
recipients of credit shall be distributed amongst such
recipients and such distribution shall be pro rata on the basis
of the turnover in a State or turnov er in a Union territory of
such recipient, during the relevant period, to the aggregate of
the turnover of all recipients and which are operational in the
current year, during the said relevant period.
Explanation. — For the purposes of this section, -
(a) t he “relevant period” shall be ––
(i) if the recipients of credit have turnover in their States
or Union territories in the financial year preceding the
year during which credit is to be distributed, the said
financial year; or
(ii) if some or all recipien ts of the credit do not have any
turnover in their States or Union territories in the
financial year preceding the year during which the
credit is to be distributed, the last quarter for which
details of such turnover of all the recipients are
available, p revious to the month during which credit is
to be distributed;
(b) the expression “recipient of credit” means the supplier of
goods or services or both having the same Permanent
Account Number as that of the Input Service Distributor;
(c) the term “turnove r”, in relation to any registered person
engaged in the supply of taxable goods as well as goods not
taxable under this Act, means the value of turnover, reduced
by the amount of any duty or tax levied under entry 84 of
List I of the Seventh Schedule to th e Constitution and entry
51 and 54 of List II of the said Schedule.
Manner of recovery 21. Where the Input Service Distributor distributes the credit in
of credit distributed contravention of the provisions contained in section 20 resulting in excess in excess.
distribution of credit to one or more recipients of credit, the excess credit so
distributed shall be recovered from such recipients alongwith interest, and

1236 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
the provisions of section 73 or section 74, as the case may be, shall, mutatis
mutandis, app ly for determination of amount to be recovered.
CHAPTER - VI
REGISTRATION
22. (1) Every supplier making a taxable supply of goods or services or Persons liable for
both in the State shall be liable to be registered under this Act if his registration.
aggregate turnover in a financial year exceeds twenty lakh rupees:
Provided that where such person makes taxable supplies of goods
or services or both from any of the special category States, he shall be liable
to be registered if his aggregate turnover in a financial year exceeds ten lak h
rupees.
(2) Every person who, on the day immediately preceding the
appointed day, is registered or holds a licence under an existing law, shall
be liable to be registered under this Act with effect from the appointed day.
(3) Where a business carried on by a taxable person registered under
this Act is transferred, whether on account of succession or otherwise, to
another person as a going concern, the transferee or the successor, as the
case may be, shall be liable to be registered with effect from the date of
such transfer or succession.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - sections (1) and (3),
in a case of transfer pursuant to sanction of a scheme or an arrangement for
amalgamation or, as the case may be, de - merger of two or more companies
pursuant to an order of a High Court, Tribunal or otherwise, the transferee
shall be liable to be registered, with effect from the date on which the
Registrar of Companies issues a certificate of incorporation giving effect to
such order of the High Court or Tribunal.
Explanation. — For the purposes of this section, -
(i) the expression “aggregate turnover” shall include all
supplies made by the taxable person, whether on his
own account or made on behalf of all his principals;
(ii) the supply of goods, after completion of job work, by
a registered job worker shall be treated as the supply
of goods by the principal referred to in section 143,
and the value of such goods shall not be included in
the aggregate turnover of the registered job worker;
(iii) the ex pression “special category States” shall mean
the States as specified in sub - clause (g) of clause (4)
of article 279A of the Constitution.
23. (1) The following persons shall not be liable to registration, namely: - Persons not liab le for
registration.
(a) an y person engaged exclusively in the business of
supplying goods or services or both that are not liable to

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1237
tax or wholly exempt from tax under this Act or under
the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017
(Central Act 13 of 2017);
(b) an agriculturist, to the extent of supply of produce out of
cultivation of land.
(2) The Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, by
notification, specify the category of persons who may be exempted from
obtainin g registration under this Act.
Compulsory 24. Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - section (1) of section 22,
registration in the following categories of persons shall be required to be registered under certain cases.
this Act, -
(i) persons making an y inter - State taxable supply;
(ii) casual taxable persons making taxable supply;
(iii) persons who are required to pay tax under reverse charge;
(iv) person who are required to pay tax under sub - section (5) of
section 9;
(v) non - resident taxable persons making taxable supply;
(vi) persons who are required to deduct tax under section 51,
whether or not separately registered under this Act;
(vii) persons who make taxable supply of goods or services or both
on behalf of other taxable persons whether as an agent or
otherwise;
(viii) Input Service Distributor, whether or not separately registered
under this Act;
(ix) persons who supply goods or services or both, other than
supplies specified under sub - section (5) of section 9, through
such electronic commerce operator who is required to collect tax
at source under section 52;
(x) every electronic commerce operator;
( xi) every person supplying online information and data base access
or retrieval services from a place outside India to a person in
India, other th an a registered person; and
(xii) such other person or class of persons, as may be notified by the
Government, on the recommendations of the Council.
Procedure for 25. (1) Every person who is liable to be registered under section 22 or
registration. sec tion 24 shall apply for registration within thirty days from the date on
which he becomes liable to registration, in such manner and subject to such
conditions, as may be prescribed:
Provided that a casual taxable person or a non - resident taxable
person sh all apply for registration at least five days prior to the
com mencement of business.

1238 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(2) A person seeking registration under this Act shall be granted a
single registration:
Provided that a person having multiple business verticals in the
State may be gr anted a separate registration for each business vertical,
subject to such conditions, as may be prescribed .
(3) A person, though not liable to be registered under section 22 or
section 24 may get himself registered voluntarily, and all provisions of this
Act, as are applicable to a registered person, shall apply to such person.
(4) A person who has obtained or is required to obtain more than one
registration, whether in one State or Union territory or more than one State
or Union territory shall, in resp ect of each such registration, be treated as
distinct persons for the purposes of this Act.
(5) Where a person who has obtained or is required to obtain
registration in a State or Union territory in respect of an establishment, has
an establishment in ano ther State or Union territory, then such
establishments shall be treated as establishments of distinct persons for the
purposes of this Act.
(6) Every person shall have a Permanent Account Number issued
under the Income - tax Act, 1961 (Central Act 43 of 1 961) in order to be
eligible for grant of registration:
Provided that a person required to deduct tax under section 51
may have, in lieu of a Permanent Account Number, a Tax Deduction and
Collection Account Number issued under the said Act in order to be e ligible
for grant of registration.
(7) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - section (6), a non -
resident taxable person may be granted registration under sub - section (1) on
the basis of such other documents, as may be prescribed.
(8) Where a person w ho is liable to be registered under this Act fails
to obtain registration, the proper officer may, without prejudice to any
action which may be taken under this Act or under any other law for the
time being in force, proceed to register such person in such manner, as may
be prescribed.
(9) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - section (1), -
(a) a ny specialised agency of the United Nations Organisation
or any Multilateral Financial Institution and Organisation
notified under the United Nations (Privileg es and
Immunities) Act, 1947 (Central Act 46 of 1947), Consulate
or Embassy of foreign countries; and
(b) any other person or class of persons, as may be notified by
the Commissioner,
shall be granted a Unique Identity Number in such manner and for
such p urposes, including refund of taxes on the notified supplies of goods or

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1239
services or both received by them, as may be prescribed.
(10) The registration or the Unique Identity Number shall be granted or
rejected after due verification in such manner and within such period, as may
be prescribed.
(11) A certificate of registration shall be issued in such form and with
effect from such date, as may be prescribed.
(12) A registration or a Unique Identity Number shall be deemed
to have been granted after the expiry of the period prescribed under
sub - section (10), if no deficiency has been communicated to the applicant
within that period.
Deemed 26. (1) The grant of registration or the Unique Identity Number under the
registration. Central Goods and Ser vices Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of 2017) shall be
deemed to be a grant of registration or the Unique Identity Number under
this Act subject to the condition that the application for registration or the
Unique Identity Number has not been rejected under this Act within the time
specified in sub - section (10) of section 25.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - section (10) of
section 25, any rejection of application for registration or the Unique
Identity Number under the Central Goods and Serv ices Tax Act, 2017
(Central Act 12 of 2017) shall be deemed to be a rejection of application for
registration under this Act.
Special provisions 27. (1) The certificate of registration i ssued to a casual taxable person or
relating to casual a non - resident taxable person shall be valid for the period specified in the taxable person and
non - resident taxable application for registration or ninety days from the effective date of
person. registration, whichever is earlier and such person shall make taxable su pplies
only after the issuance of the certificate of registration:
Provided that the proper officer may, on sufficient cause being
shown by the said taxable person, extend the said period of ninety days by a
further period not exceeding ninety days.
(2 ) A casual taxable person or a non - resident taxable person shall, at
the time of submission of application for registration under sub - section (1) of
section 25, make an advance deposit of tax in an amount equivalent to the
estimated tax liability of such p erson for the period for which the registration
is sought:
Provided that where any extension of time is sought under
sub - section (1), such taxable person shall deposit an additional amount of tax
equivalent to the estimated tax liability of such person for the period for
which the extension is sought.
(3) The amount deposited under sub - section (2) shall be credited to

1240 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
the electronic cash ledger of such person and shall be utilised in the manner
provided under section 49.
28. (1) Every registered pers on and a person to whom a Unique Identity Amendment of
Number has been assigned shall inform the proper officer of any changes in registratio n.
the information furnished at the time of registration or subsequent thereto, in
such form and manner and within such period, as may be pres cribed.
(2) The proper officer may, on the basis of information furnished
under sub - section (1) or as ascertained by him, approve or reject amendments
in the registration particulars in such manner and within such period, as may
be prescribed:
Provided that approval of the proper officer shall not be required in
respect of amendment of such particulars, as may be prescribed:
Provided further that the proper officer shall not reject the
application for amendment in the registration particulars without giving the
person an opportunity of being heard.
(3) Any rejection or approval of amendments under the Central Goods
and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of 2017) shall be deemed to be a
rejection or approval under this Act.
29. (1) The proper officer may, either on his own motion or on an Cancellation of
application filed by the registered person or by his legal heirs, in case of death registration.
of such person, cancel the registration, in such manner and within such period
as may be prescribed, ha ving regard to the circumstances where, –
(a) the business has been discontinued, transferred fully for any
reason including death of the proprietor, amalgamated with
other legal entity, demerged or otherwise disposed of; or
(b) there is any change in the c onstitution of the business; or
(c) the taxable person , other than the person registered under
sub - section (3) of section 25, is no longer liable to be
registered under section 22 or section 24 .
(2) The proper officer may cancel the registration of a pers on from
such date, including any retrospective date, as he may deem fit, where, –
(a) a registered person has contravened such provisions of the
Act or the rules made thereunder, as may be prescribed; or
(b) a person paying tax under section 10 has not f urnished returns
for three consecutive tax periods; or
(c) any registered person, other than a person specified in
clause (b), has not furnished returns for a continuous period
of six months; or
(d) any person who has taken voluntary registration under

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1241
sub - section (3) of section 25 has not commenced business
within six months from the date of registration; or
(e) registration has been obtained by means of fraud, wilful
misstatement or suppression of facts:
Provided that the proper officer shall not cancel the registration
without giving the person an opportunity of being heard.
(3) The cancellation of registration under this section shall not affect
the liability of the person to pay tax and other dues under this Act or to
discharge any obligation under this Act or the rules made thereunder for any
period prior to the date of cancellation whether or not such tax and other
dues are determined before or after the date of cancellation.
(4) The cancellation of registration u nder the Central Goods and
Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of 2017) shall be deemed to be a
cancellation of registration under this Act.
(5) Every registered person whose registration is cancelled shall pay
an amount, by way of debit in the electro nic credit ledger or electronic cash
ledger, equivalent to the credit of input tax in respect of inputs held in stock
and inputs contained in semi - finished or finished goods held in stock or
capital goods or plant and machinery on the day immediately prece ding the
date of such cancellation or the output tax payable on such goods, whichever
is higher, calculated in such manner, as may be prescribed:
Provided that in case of capital goods or plant and machinery, the
taxable person shall pay an amount equal to the input tax credit taken on the
said capital goods or plant and machinery, reduced by such percentage points
as may be prescribed or the tax on the transaction value of such capital goods
or plant and machinery under section 15, whichever is higher .
(6) The amount payable under sub - section (5) shall be calculated in
such manner, as may be prescribed.
Revocation of 30. (1) Subject to such conditions, as may be prescribed, any registered
cancellation of person , whose registration is ca ncelled by the proper officer on his own
registration. motion, may apply to such officer for revocation of cancellation of the
registration in the prescribed manner within thirty days from the date of
service of the cancellation order.
(2) The proper officer may, in su ch manner and within such period as
may be prescribed, by order, either revoke cancellation of the registration or
reject the application:
Provided that the application for revocation of cancellation of
registration shall not be rejected unless the appli cant has been given an
opportunity of being heard.
(3) The revocation of cancellation of registration under the Central
Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of 2017) shall be deemed

1242 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
to be a revocation of cancellation of registration under this Act.
CHAPTER - VII
TAX INVOICE, CREDIT AND DEBIT NOTES
31. (1) A register ed person supplying taxable goods shall, before or at Tax invoice.
the time of, -
(a) removal of goods for supply to the recipient, where the
supply involves movement of goods; or
(b) delivery of goods or making available thereof to the
recipient, in any other case,
issue a tax invoice showing the description, quantity and value of goods,
the tax charged thereon and such other particulars, as may be prescribed:
Provided that the Government may, on the recommendations of
the Council, by notification, specify the categories of goods or supplies in
respect of which a tax invoice shall be issued, within such time and in
such manner, as may be prescribed.
(2) A registered person supplying taxable se rvices shall, before or
after the provision of service but within a prescribed period, issue a tax
invoice, showing the description, value, tax charged thereon and such
other particulars, as may be prescribed:
Provided that the Government may, on the re commendations of
the Council, by notification and subject to such conditions, as may be
mentioned therein, specify the categories of services in respect of which –
(a) any other document issued in relation to the supply shall
be deemed to be a tax invoice; or
(b) tax invoice may not be issued.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - sections (1) and (2) -
(a) a registered person may, within one month from the date
of issuance of certificate of registration and in such
manner as may be prescribed, issue a revised invoice
against the invoice already issued during the period
beginning with the effective date of registration till the
date of issuance of certificate of registration to him;
(b) a registered person may not issue a tax invoice if the value
of t he goods or services or both supplied is less than two
hundred rupees subject to such conditions and in such

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1243
manner, as may be prescribed;
(c) a registered person supplying exempted goods or services or
both or paying tax under the provisio ns of section 10 shall
issue, instead of a tax invoice, a bill of supply containing
such particulars and in such manner, as may be prescribed:
Provided that the registered person may not issue a bill
of supply if the value of the goods or services or both
supplied is less than two hundred rupees subject to such
conditions and in such manner, as may be prescribed ;
(d) a registered person shall, on receipt of advance payment
with respect to any supply of goods or services or both, issue
a receipt voucher or any other document, containing such
particulars as may be prescribed, evidencing receipt of such
payment;
(e) where, on receipt of advance payment with respect to any
supply of goods or services or both the registered person
issues a receipt voucher, bu t subsequently no supply is made
and no tax invoice is issued in pursuance thereof, the said
registered person may issue to the person who had made the
payment, a refund voucher against such payment;
(f) a registered person who is liable to pay tax under sub - section
(3) or sub - section (4) of section 9 shall issue an invoice in
respect of goods or services or both received by him from
the supplier who is not registered on the date of receipt of
goods or services or both;
(g) a registered person who is liab le to pay tax under sub - section
(3) or sub - section (4) of section 9 shall issue a payment
voucher at the time of making payment to the supplier.
(4) In case of continuous supply of goods, where successive
statements of accounts or successive payments are involved, the invoice shall
be issued before or at the time each such statement is issued or, as the case
may be, each such payment is received.
(5) Subject to the provisions of clause (d) of sub - section (3), in case
of continuous supply of services, -
( a) where the due date of payment is ascertainable from the
contract , the invoice shall be issued on or before the due date
of payment;
(b) where the due date of payment is not ascertainable from the
contract, the invoice shall be issued before or at the time

1244 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
when the supplier of service receives the payment;
(c) where the payment is linked to the completion of an event,
the invoice shall be issued on or before the date of
completion of that event.
(6) In a case where the supply of services ceases under a contract
before the completion of the supply, the invoice shall be issued at the time
when the supply ceases and such invoice shall be issued to the extent of the
supply made before such cessation.
(7) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - section (1), where the
goods being sent or taken on approval for sale or return are removed before
the supply takes place, the invoice shall be issued before or at the time of
supply or six months from the date of removal, whichever is earlier.
Explanation. – For t he purposes of this section, the expression
“tax invoice” shall include any revised invoice
issued by the supplier in respect of a supply made
earlier.
32. (1) A person who is not a registered person shall not collect in Prohibition of
respect of any supply of goods o r services or both any amount by way of tax unauthorised
under this Act. collection of tax.
(2) No registered person shall collect tax except in accordance with
the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder.
33. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for Amount of tax to be
the time being in force, where any supply is made for a consideration, every indicated in tax
invoice and other
person who is liable to pay tax for such supply shall prominently indicate in documents.
all documents relating to assessment, tax invoice and other like documents,
the amount of tax which shall form part of the price at which such supply is
made.
34. (1) Where a tax invoice has been issued for supply of any goods or Credit and debit
services or both and the taxable value or tax charged in that tax invoice is notes.
found to exceed the taxable value or tax payable in respect of such supply,
or where the goods supplied are returned by the recipient, or where goods or
services or both supplied are fou nd to be deficient, the registered person,
who has supplied such goods or services or both, may issue to the recipient
a credit note containing such particulars, as may be prescribed.
(2) Any registered person who issues a credit note in relation to a
su pply of goods or services or both shall declare the details of such credit
note in the return for the month during which such credit note has been
issued but not later than September following the end of the financial year
in which such supply was made, or the date of furnishing of the relevant
annual return, whichever is earlier, and the tax liability shall be adjusted in
such manner, as may be prescribed:
Provided that no reduction in output tax liability of the supplier

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1245
shall be permitted, if the incid ence of tax and interest on such supply has
been passed on to any other person.
(3) Where a tax invoice has been issued for supply of any goods or
services or both and the taxable value or tax charged in that tax invoice is
found to be less than the taxable value or tax payable in respect of such
supply, the registered person, who has supplied such goods or services or
both, shall issue to the recipient a debit note containing such particulars, as
may be prescribed.
(4) Any regis tered person who issues a debit note in relation to a
supply of goods or services or both shall declare the details of such debit
note in the return for the month during which such debit note has been issued
and the tax liability shall be adjusted in such manner, as may be prescribed.
Explanation. — For the purposes of this Act, the expression “debit
note” shall include a supplementary invoice.
CHAPTER VIII
ACCOUNTS AND RECORDS
Accounts and other 35. (1) Every registered person shall keep and m aintain, at his principal
records. place of business, as mentioned in the certificate of registration, a true and
correct account of -
(a) production or manufacture of goods;
(b) inward and outward supply of goods or services or both;
(c) stock of goods;
(d) input tax credit availed;
(e) output tax payable and paid; and
(f) such other particulars, as may be prescribed:
Provided that where more than one place of business is specified
in the certificate of registration, the accounts relating to each plac e of
business shall be kept at such places of business:
Provided further that the registered person may keep and maintain
such accounts and other particulars in electronic form in such manner, as
may be prescribed.
(2) Every owner or operator of warehou se or godown or any other
place used for storage of goods and every transporter, irrespective of whether
he is a registered person or not, shall maintain records of the consigner,
consignee and other relevant details of the goods in such manner, as may be
prescribed.
(3) The Commissioner may notify a class of taxable persons to
maintain additional accounts or documents for such purpose, as may be

1246 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
specified therein.
(4) Where the Commissioner considers that any class of taxable
persons is not in a positi on to keep and maintain accounts in accordance
with the provisions of this section, he may, for reasons to be recorded in
writing, permit such class of taxable persons to maintain accounts in such
manner, as may be prescribed.
(5) Every registered person whose turnover during a financial year
exceeds the prescribed limit shall get his accounts audited by a chartered
accountant or a cost accountant and shall submit a copy of the audited
annual accounts, the reconciliation statement under sub - section (2) of
section 44 and such other documents in such form and manner, as may be
prescribed.
(6) Subject to the provisions of clause (h) of sub - section (5) of
section 17, where the registered person fails to account for the goods or
services or both in accordance with the provisions of sub - section (1), the
proper officer shall determine the amount of tax payable on the goods or
services or both that are not accounted for, as if such goods or services or
both had been supplied by such person and the provisions of se ction 73 or
section 74, as the case may be, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply for
determination of such tax.
36. Every registered person required to keep and maintain books of Period of retention
account or other records in accordance with the provisions of sub - section (1) of accounts.
of section 35 shall retain them until the expiry of seventy two months from
the due date of furnishing of annual return for the year pertaining to such
accounts and records:
Provided that a registered person, who is a party to an appeal or
revision or any ot her proceedings before any Appellate Authority or
Revisional Authority or Appellate Tribunal or court, whether filed by him or
by the Commissioner, or is under investigation for an offence under Chapter
XIX, shall retain the books of account and other reco rds pertaining to the
subject matter of such appeal or revision or proceedings or investigation for
a period of one year after final disposal of such appeal or revision or
proceedings or investigation, or for the period specified above, whichever is
later.
CHAPTER - IX
RETURNS
37. (1) Every registered person, other than an Input Service Distributor, a Furnishing details of
non - resident taxable person and a person paying tax under the provisions of outward supplies.
section 10 or section 51 or section 52, shall furnish, electronically, in such
form and manner, as may be prescribed, the details of outward supplies of
goods or services or both effected during a tax period on or before the tenth
day of the month succeeding the said tax period and such details shall be
communicated to the recipient of the said supplies within such time and in

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1247
such manner as may be prescribed:
Provided that the registered person shall not be allowed to furnish
the details of outward supplies during the period from the eleventh day to the
fifteenth day of the month succeeding the tax period:
Provided further that the Commissioner may, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, by notification, extend the time limit for furnishing such
details fo r such class of taxable persons as may be specified therein :
Provided also that any extension of time limit notified by the
Commissioner of central tax shall be deemed to be notified by the
Commissioner.
(2) Every registered person who has been communic ated the details
under sub - section (3) of section 38 or the details pertaining to inward
supplies of Input Service Distributor under sub - section (4) of section 38,
shall either accept or reject the details so communicated, on or before the
seventeenth day, but not before the fifteenth day, of the month succeeding
the tax period and the details furnished by him under sub - section (1) shall
stand amended accordingly.
(3) Any registered person, who has furnished the details under sub -
section (1) for any tax p eriod and which have remained unmatched under
section 42 or section 43, shall, upon discovery of any error or omission
therein, rectify such error or omission in such manner as may be prescribed,
and shall pay the tax and interest, if any, in case there is a short payment of
tax on account of such error or omission, in the return to be furnished for
such tax period:
Provided that no rectification of error or omission in respect of the
details furnished under sub - section (1) shall be allowed after furnishi ng of
the return under section 39 for the month of September following the end of
the financial year to which such details pertain, or furnishing of the relevant
annual return, whichever is earlier.
Explanation. – For the purposes of this Chapter, the expr ession
“details of outward supplies” shall include details
of invoices, debit notes, credit notes and revised
invoices issued in relation to outward suppl ies
made during any tax period.
Furnishing details 38. (1) Every registered pers on, other than an Input Service Distributor or
of inward supplies. a non - resident taxable person or a person paying tax under the provisions of
section 10 or section 51 or section 52, shall verify, validate, modify or delete,
if required, the details relating to outward suppl ies and credit or debit notes
communicated under sub - section (1) of section 37 to prepare the details of
his inward supplies and credit or debit notes and may include therein, the
details of inward supplies and credit or debit notes received by him in resp ect
of such supplies that have not been declared by the supplier under sub -
section (1) of section 37.

1248 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(2) Every registered person, other than an Input Service Distributor
or a non - resident taxable person or a person paying tax under the provisions
of section 10 or sectio n 51 or section 52, shall furnish, electronically, the
details of inward supplies of taxable goods or services or both, including
inward supplies of goods or services or both on which the tax is payable
on reverse charge basis under t his Act and inward supplies of goods or
services or both taxable under the Integr ated Goods and Services Tax
Act, 2017 (Central Act 13 of 2017) or on which integrated goods and
services tax is payable under section 3 of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975
(Centra l Act 51 of 1975) and credit or debit notes received in respect of
such supplies during a tax period after the tenth day but on or before the
fifteenth day of the month succeeding the tax period in such form and
manner, as may be prescribed:
Provided tha t the Commissioner may, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, by notification, extend the time limit for furnishing
such details for such class of taxable persons, as may be specified
therein:
Provided further that any extension of time limit notified b y
the Commissioner of central tax shall be deemed to be notified by the
Commissioner.
(3) The details of supplies modified, deleted or included by the
recipient and furnished under sub - section (2) shall be communicated to
the supplier concerned in such ma nner and within such time, as may be
prescribed.
(4) The details of supplies modified, deleted or included by the
recipient in the return furnished under sub - section (2) or sub - section (4)
of section 39 shall be communicated to the supplier concerned in s uch
manner and within such time, as may be prescribed.
(5) Any registered person, who has furnished the details under
sub - section (2) for any tax period and which have remained unmatched
under section 42 or section 43, shall, upon discovery of any error o r
omission therein, rectify such error or omission in the tax period during
which such error or omission is noticed in such manner, as may be
prescribed, and shall pay the tax and interest, if any, in case there is a
short payment of tax on account of such error or omission, in the return
to be furnished for such tax period:
Provided that no rectification of error or omission in respect of
the details furnished under sub - section (2) shall be allowed after
furnishing of the return under section 39 for the month of September
following the end of the financial year to which such details pertain, or

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1249
furnishing of the relevant annual return, whichever is earlier.
Furnishing of 39. (1) Every registered person, other than an Input Service Distributor or
returns. a non - resident taxable person or a person paying tax under the provisions of
section 10 or section 51 or section 52 shall, for every calendar month or part
thereof, furnish, in such form and manner, as may be prescribed, a return,
electronically, of in ward and outward supplies of goods or services or both,
input tax credit availed, tax payable, tax paid and such other particulars, as
may be prescribed on or before the twentieth day of the month succeeding
such calendar month or part thereof.
(2) A reg istered person paying tax under the provisions of section 10
shall, for each quarter or part thereof, furnish, in such form and manner as
may be prescribed, a return, electronically, of turnover in the State, inward
supplies of goods or services or both, t ax payable and tax paid within
eighteen days after the end of such quarter.
(3) Every registered person required to deduct tax at source under the
provisions of section 51 shall furnish, in such form and manner as may be
prescribed, a return, electronical ly, for the month in which such deductions
have been made within ten days after the end of such month.
(4) Every taxable person registered as an Input Service Distributor
shall, for every calendar month or part thereof, furnish, in such form and
manner as may be prescribed, a return, electronically, within thirteen days
after the end of such month.
(5) Every registered non - resident taxable person shall, for every
calendar month or part thereof, furnish, in such form and manner as may be
prescribed, a retu rn, electronically, within twenty days after the end of a
calendar month or within seven days after the last day of the period of
registration specified under sub - section (1) of section 27, whichever is
earlier.
(6) The Commissioner may, for reasons to b e recorded in writing, by
notification, extend the time limit for furnishing the returns under this
section for such class of registered persons as may be specified therein:
Provided that any extension of time limit notified by the Commissioner
of centra l tax shall be deemed to be notified by the Commissioner.
(7) Every registered person, who is required to furnish a return under
sub - section (1) or sub - section (2) or sub - section (3) or sub - section (5), shall
pay to the Government the tax due as per such return not later than the last
date on which he is required to furnish such return.
(8) Every registered person who is required to furnish a return under
sub - section (1) or sub - section (2) shall furnish a return for every tax period
whether or not any supplies of goods or services or both have been made
during such tax period.
(9) Subject to the provisions of sections 37 and 38, if any registered
person after furnishing a return under sub - section (1) or sub - section (2)
sub - section (3) or sub - section ( 4) or sub - section (5) discovers any omission

1250 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
or incorrect particulars therein, other than as a result of scrutiny, audit,
inspection or enforcement activity by the tax authorities, he shall rectify
such omission or incorrect particulars in the return to be furnished for the
month or quarter during which such omission or incorrect particulars are
noticed, subject to payment of interest under this Act:
Provided that no such rectification of any omission or incorrect
particulars shall be allowed after the due date for furnishing of return for
the month of September or second quarter following the end of the
financial year, or the actual date of furnishing of relevant annual return,
whichever is earlier.
(10) A registered person shall not be allowed to furnish a return for
a tax period if the return for any of the previous tax periods has not been
furnished by him.
40. Every registered person who has made outward supplies in the First Return.
period between the date on which he became liable to registration till the
date on which registration has been granted shall declare the same in the
first return furnished by him after grant of registration.
41. (1) Every registered person shall, subject to such conditions and Claim of input tax
restrictions as may be prescribe d, be entitled to take the credit of eligible credit and provisional
input tax, as self - assessed, in his return and such amount shall be credited acceptance thereof.
on a provisional basis to his electronic credit ledger.
(2) The credit referred to in sub - section (1) shall be utilised only
for pay ment of self - assessed output tax as per the return referred to in the
said sub - section.
42. (1) The details of every inward supply furnished by a registered Matching, reversal and
person (hereafter in this section re ferred to as the “recipient”) for a tax reclaim of input tax
credit.
period shall, in such manner and within such time, as may be prescribed,
be matched ––
(a) with the corresponding details of outward supply
furnished by the corresponding registered person
(hereafter in this section r eferred to as the “supplier”) in
his valid return for the same tax period or any preceding
tax period;
(b) with the integrated goods and services tax paid under
section 3 of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (Central Act 51
of 1975) in respect of goods import ed by him; and
(c) for duplication of claims of input tax credit.
(2) The claim of input tax credit in respect of invoices or debit
notes relating to inward supply that match with the details
of corresponding outward supply or with the integrated good s
and services tax paid under section 3 of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975
(Central Act 51 of 1975) in respect of goods imported by him shall be
finally accepted and such acceptance shall be communicated, in such

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1251
manner as may be prescribed, to the recipient .
(3) Where the input tax credit claimed by a recipient in respect of an
inward supply is in excess of the tax declared by the supplier for the same
supply or the outward supply is not declared by th e supplier in his valid
returns, the discrepancy shall be communicated to both such persons in such
manner, as may be prescribed.
(4) The duplication of claims of input tax credit shall be
communicated to the recipient in such manner, as may be prescribe d.
(5) The amount in respect of which any discrepancy is communicated
under sub - section (3) and which is not rectified by the supplier in his valid
return for the month in which discrepancy is communicated shall be added to
the output tax liability of th e recipient, in such manner as may be prescribed,
in his return for the month succeeding the month in which the discrepancy is
communicated.
(6) The amount claimed as input tax credit that is found to be in
excess on account of duplication of claims shall be added to the output tax
liability of the recipient in his return for the month in which the duplication
is communicated.
(7) The recipient shall be eligible to reduce, from his output tax
liability, the amount added under sub - section (5), if the suppl ier declares the
details of the invoice or debit note in his valid return within the time
specified in sub - section (9) of section 39.
(8) A recipient in whose output tax liability any amount has been
added under sub - section (5) or sub - section (6), shall b e liable to pay interest
at the rate specified under sub - section (1) of section 50 on the amount so
added from the date of availing of credit till the corresponding additions are
made under the said sub - sections.
(9) Where any reduction in output tax lia bility is accepted under
sub - section (7), the interest paid under sub - section (8) shall be refunded to
the recipient by crediting the amount in the corresponding head of his
electronic cash ledger in such manner, as may be prescribed:
Provided that the amount of interest to be credited in any case
shall not exceed the amount of interest paid by the supplier.
(10) The amount reduced from the output tax liability in contravention
of the provisions of sub - section (7) shall be added to the output tax liabil ity
of the recipient in his return for the month in which such contravention takes
place and such recipient shall be liable to pay interest on the amount so
added at the rate specified in sub - section (3) of section 50.
Matching, reversal 43. (1) The details of every credit note relating to outward supply
and reclaim of furnished by a registered person (hereafter in this section referred to as the
r eduction in output
tax liability. “supplier”) for a tax period shall, in such manner and within such time as
may be prescribed, be matched -
(a) with the corresponding reduction in the claim for input tax
credit by the corresponding registered person (hereafter in
this section referred to as the “recipient”) in his valid return

1252 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
for the same tax period or any subs equent tax period; and
(b) for duplication of claims for reduction in output tax liability.
(2) The claim for reduction in output tax liability by the supplier that
matches with the corresponding reduction in the claim for input tax credit by
the recipi ent shall be finally accepted and communicated, in such manner as
may be prescribed, to the supplier.
(3) Where the reduction of output tax liability in respect of outward
supplies exceeds the corresponding reduction in the claim for input tax credit or
t he corresponding credit note is not declared by the recipient in his valid
returns, the discrepancy shall be communicated to both such persons in such
manner, as may be prescribed.
(4) The duplication of claims for reduction in output tax liability shall be
communicated to the supplier in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(5) The amount in respect of which any discrepancy is communicated
under sub - section (3) and which is not rectified by the recipient in his valid
return for the month in which discrepan cy is communicated shall be added to
the output tax liability of the supplier, in such manner, as may be prescribed, in
his return for the month succeeding the month in which the discrepancy is
communicated.
(6) The amount in respect of any reduction in o utput tax liability that is
found to be on account of duplication of claims shall be added to the output tax
liability of the supplier in his return for the month in which such duplication is
communicated.
(7) The supplier shall be eligible to reduce, fro m his output tax liability,
the amount added under sub - section (5) if the recipient declares the details of
the credit note in his valid return within the time specified in sub - section (9) of
section 39.
(8) A supplier in whose output tax liability any a mount has been added
under sub - section (5) or sub - section (6), shall be liable to pay interest at the rate
specified under sub - section (1) of section 50 in respect of the amount so added
from the date of such claim for reduction in the output tax liability till the
corresponding additions are made under the said sub - sections.
(9) Where any reduction in output tax liability is accepted under sub -
section (7), the interest paid under sub - section (8) shall be refunded to the
supplier by crediting the amount in the corresponding head of his electronic
cash ledger in such manner, as may be prescribed:
Provided that the amount of interest to be credited in any case shall
not exceed the amount of interest paid by the recipient.
(10) The amount reduced from outp ut tax liability in contravention of the
provisions of sub - section (7) shall be added to the output tax liability of the
supplier in his return for the month in which such contravention takes place and
such supplier shall be liable to pay interest on the a mount so added at the rate

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1253
specified in sub - section (3) of section 50.
Annual return. 44. (1) Every registered person, other than an Input Service Distributor, a
person paying tax under section 51 or section 52, a casual taxable person and
a non - residen t taxable person, shall furnish an annual return for every
financial year electronically in such form and manner, as may be prescribed
on or before the thirty - first day of December following the end of such
financial year.
(2) Every r egistered person who is required to get his accounts audited
in accordance with the provisions of sub - section (5) of section 35 shall
furnish, electronically, the annual return under sub - section (1) alongwith a
copy of the audited annual accounts and a reconciliation statemen t,
reconciling the value of supplies declared in the return furnished for the
financial year with the audited annual financial statement, and such other
particulars, as may be prescribed.
Final return. 45. Every registered person who is required to furnis h a return under sub -
section (1) of section 39 and whose registration has been cancelled shall
furnish a final return within three months of the date of cancellation or date
of order of cancellation, whichever is later, in such form and manner, as may
be p rescribed.
Notice to return 46. Where a registered person fails to furnish a return under section 39 or
defaulters. section 44 or section 45, a notice shall be issued requiring him to furnish
such return within fifteen days in such form and manner, as ma y be
prescribed.
Levy of late fee. 47. (1) Any registered person who fails to furnish the details of outward
or inward supplies required under section 37 or section 38 or returns required
under section 39 or section 45 by the due date shall pay a late fe e of one
hundred rupees for every day during which such failure continues subject to
a maximum amount of five thousand rupees.
(2) Any registered person who fails to furnish the return required
under section 44 by the due date shall be liable to pay a lat e fee of one
hundred rupees for every day during which such failure continues subject to
a maximum of an amount calculated at a quarter percent of his turnover in
the State.
Goods and services 48. (1) The manner of approval of goods a nd services tax practitioners,
tax practitioners. their eligibility conditions, duties and obligations, manner of removal and
other conditions relevant for their functioning shall be such, as may be
prescribed.
(2) A registered person may authorise an approved goods and se rvices
tax practitioner to furnish the details of outward supplies under section 37,
the details of inward supplies under section 38 and the return under section
39 or section 44 or section 45 in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(3) Notwithstanding anyt hing contained in sub - section (2), the
responsibility for correctness of any particulars furnished in the return or
other details filed by the goods and services tax practitioners shall continue
to rest with the registered person on whose behalf such re tur n and details are

1254 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
furnished.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1253
CHAPTER - X
PAYMENT OF TAX
49. (1) Every deposit made towards tax, interest, penalty, fee or any other Payment of tax,
amount by a person by internet banking or by using credit or debit cards or interest, penalty and
other amounts.
National Electronic Fund Transfer or Real Time Gross Settlement or by such
other mode and subject to such conditions and restrictions, as may be
prescribed, shall be credited to the electronic cash ledger of such person to be
maintained in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(2) The input tax credit as self-assessed in the return of a registered
person shall be credited to his electronic credit ledger, in accordance with
section 41, to be maintained in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(3) The amount available in the electronic cash ledger may be used for
making any payment towards tax, interest, penalty, fees or any other amount
payable under the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder in such
manner and subject to such conditions and within such time, as may be
prescribed.
(4) The amount available in the electronic credit ledger may be used
for making any payment towards output tax under this Act or under the
Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 13 of 2017) in
such manner and subject to such conditions and within such time, as may be
prescribed.
(5) The amount of input tax credit available in the electronic credit
ledger of the registered person on account of –
(a) integrated tax shall first be utilised towards payment of
integrated tax and the amount remaining, if any, may be
utilised towards the payment of central tax and State tax, or
as the case may be, Union territory tax, in that order;
(b) the central tax shall first be utilised towards payment of
central tax and the amount remaining, if any, may be utilised
towards the payment of integrated tax;
(c) the State tax shall first be utilised towards payment of State
tax and the amount remaining, if any, may be utilised
towards the payment of integrated tax;
(d) the central tax shall not be utilised towards payment of State
tax; and
(e) the State tax shall not be utilised towards payment of central
tax.
(6) The balance in the electronic cash ledger or electronic credit ledger
after payment of tax, interest, penalty, fee or any other amount payable under
this Act or the rules made thereunder may be refunded in accordance with the
provisions of section 54.

1254 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(7) All liabilities of a taxable person under this Act shall be recorded
and maintained in an electronic liability register in such manner as may be
prescribed.
(8) Every taxable person shall discharge his tax and other dues under
this Act or the rules made thereunder in the following order, namely: –
(a) self-assessed tax, and other dues related to returns of previous
tax periods;
(b) self-assessed tax, and other dues related to the return of the
current tax period;
(c) any other amount payable under this Act or the rules made
thereunder including the demand determined under section 73
or section 74.
(9) Every person who has paid the tax on goods or services or both
under this Act shall, unless the contrary is proved by him, be deemed to have
passed on the full incidence of such tax to the recipient of such goods or
services or both.
Explanation. — For the purposes of this section,-
(a) the date of credit to the account of the Government in the
authorised bank shall be deemed to be the date of deposit in
the electronic cash ledger;
(b) the expression,-
(i) “tax dues” means the tax payable under this Act and
does not include interest, fee and penalty; and
(ii) “other dues” means interest, penalty, fee or any other
amount payable under this Act or the rules made
thereunder.
Interest on delayed 50. (1) Every person who is liable to pay tax in accordance with the
payment of tax. provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder, but fails to pay the tax or
any part thereof to the Government within the period prescribed, shall for the
period for which the tax or any part thereof remains unpaid, pay, on his own,
interest at such rate, not exceeding eighteen percent, as may be notified by the
Government on the recommendations of the Council.
(2) The inter e st under sub-section (1) shall be calculated, in such
manner, as may be prescribed, from the day succeeding the day on which such
tax was due to be paid.
(3) A taxable person who makes an undue or excess claim of input tax
credit under sub-section (10) of section 42 or undue or excess reduction in
output tax liability under sub-section (10) of section 43, shall pay interest on
such undue or excess claim or on such undue or excess reduction, as the case
may be, at such rate not exceeding twenty-four percent, as may be notified by
the Government on the recommendations of the Council.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1255
51. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act, the Tax deduction at
sourc e. Government may mandate,-
(a) a department or establishment of the Central Government or
State Government; or
(b) local authority; or
(c) Governmental agencies; or
(d) such persons or category of persons as may be notified by the
Government on the recommendations of the Council,
(hereafter in this section referred to as “the deductor”), to dedu ct
tax at the rate of one percent from the payment made or credited to the supplier
(hereafter in this section referred to as “the deductee”) of taxable goods or
services or both, where the total value of such supply, under a contract,
exceeds two lakh and fifty thousand rupees:
Provided that no deduction shall be made if the location of the
supplier and the place of supply is in a State or Union territory which is
different from the State or, as the case may be, Union territory of registration
of the recipient.
Explanation. — For the purpose of deduction of tax specified
above, the value of supply shall be taken as the
amount excluding the central tax, State tax,
integrated tax and cess indicated in the invoice.
(2) The amount deducted as tax under this section shall be paid to the
Government by the deductor within ten days after the end of the month in
which such deduction is made, in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(3) The deductor shall furnish to the deductee a certificate mentioning
therein the contract value, rate of deduction, amount deducted, amount paid
to the Government and such other particulars, in such manner, as may be
prescribed.
(4) If any deductor fails to furnish to the deductee the certificate, after
deducting the tax at source, within five days of crediting the amount so
deducted to the Government, the deductor shall pay, by way of a late fee, a
sum of one hundred rupees per day from the day after the expiry of such five
day period until the failure is rectified, subject to a maximum amount of five
thousand rupees.
(5) The deductee shall claim credit, in his electronic cash ledger, of the
tax deducted and reflected in the return of the deductor furnished under sub-
section (3) of section 39, in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(6) If any deductor fails to pay to the Government the amount deducted
as tax under sub-section (1), he shall pay interest in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (1) of section 50, in addition to the amount of tax
deducted.

1256 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(7) The determination of the amount in default under this section shall
be made in the manner specified in section 73 or section 74.
(8) The refund to the deductor or the deductee arising on account of
excess or erroneous deduction shall be dealt with in accordance with the
provisions of section 54:
Provided that no refund to the deductor shall be granted, if the
amount deducted has been credited to the electronic cash ledger of the
deductee.
Collection of tax at 52. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act,
source. every electronic commerce operator (hereafter in this section referred to as the
“operator”), not being an agent, shall collect an amount calculated at such rate
not exceeding one percent, as may be notified by the Government on the
recommendations of the Council, of the net value of taxable supplies made
through it by other suppliers where the consideration with respect to such
supplies is to be collected by the operator.
Explanation. — For the purposes of this sub-section, the
expression "net value of taxable supplies" shall
mean the aggregate value of taxable supplies of
goods or services or both, other than services
notified under sub-section (5) of section 9, made
during any month by all registered persons
through the operator reduced by the aggregate
value of taxable supplies returned to the
suppliers during the said month.
(2) The power to collect the amount specified in sub - section (1) shall
be without prejudice to any other mode of recovery from the ope rator.
(3) The amount collected under sub-section (1) shall be paid to the
Government by the operator within ten days after the end of the month in
which such collection is made, in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(4) Every operator who collects the amount specified in
sub-section (1) shall furnish a statement, electronically, containing the details
of outward supplies of goods or services or both effected through it, including
the supplies of goods or services or both returned through it, and the amount
collected under sub-section (1) during a month, in such form and manner, as
may be prescribed, within ten days after the end of such month.
(5) Every operator who collects the amount specified in
sub-section (1) shall furnish an annual statement, electronically, containing
the details of outward supplies of goods or services or both effected through
it, including the supplies of goods or services or both returned through it, and
the amount collected under the said sub-section during the financial year, in
such form and manner, as may be prescribed, before the thirty first day of
December following the end of such financial year.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1257
(6) If any operator after furnishing a statement under sub-section (4)
discovers any omission or incorrect particulars therein, other than as a result
of scrutiny, audit, inspection or enforcement activity by the tax authorities, he
shall rectify such omission or incorrect particulars in the statement to be
furnished for the month during which such omission or incorrect particulars
are noticed, subject to payment of interest, as specified in sub-section (1) of
section 50:
Provided that no such rectification of any omission or incorrect
particulars shall be allowed after the due date for furnishing of statement for
the month of September following the end of the financial year or the actual
date of furnishing of the relevant annual statement, whichever is earlier.
(7) The supplier who has supplied the goods or services or both
through the operator shall claim credit, in his electronic cash ledger, of the
amount collected and reflected in the statement of the operator furnished under
sub-section (4), in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(8) The details of supplies furnished by every operator under
sub-section (4) shall be matched with the corresponding details of outward
supplies furnished by the concerned supplier registered under this Act in such
manner and within such time, as may be prescribed.
(9) Where the details of outward supplies furnished by the operator
under sub-section (4) do not match with the corresponding details furnished
by the supplier under section 37, the discrepancy shall be communicated to
both persons in such manner and within such time, as may be prescribed.
(10) The amount in respect of which any discrepancy is communicated
under sub-section (9) and which is not rectified by the supplier in his valid
return or the operator in his statement for the month in which discrepancy is
communicated, shall be added to the output tax liability of the said supplier,
where the value of outward supplies furnished by the operator is more than
the value of outward supplies furnished by the supplier, in his return for the
month succeeding the month in which the discrepancy is communicated in
such manner as may be prescribed.
(11) The concerned supplier, in whose output tax liability any amount
has been added under sub-section (10), shall pay the tax payable in respect of
such supply alongwith interest, at the rate specified under sub-section (1) of
section 50 on the amount so added from the date such tax was due till the date
of its payment.
(12) Any authority not below the rank of Deputy Commissioner may
serve a notice, either before or during the course of any proceedings under this
Act, requiring the operator to furnish such details relating to –
(a) supplies of goods or services or both effected through such
operator during any period; or

1258 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(b) stock of goods held by the suppliers making supplies
through such operator in the godowns or warehouses, by
whatever name called, managed by such operator and
declared as additional places of business by such suppliers,
as may be specified in the notice.
(13) Every operator on whom a notice has been served under
sub-section (12) shall furnish the required information within fifteen working
days of the date of service of such notice.
(14) Any person who fails to furnish the information required by the
notice served under sub-section (12) shall, without prejudice to any action that
may be taken under section 122, be liable to a penalty which may extend to
twenty-five thousand rupees.
E xplanation. — For the purposes of this section, the expression
“concerne d supplier” shall mean the supplier of
goods or services or both making supplies
through the operator.
Transfer of input 53. On utilisation of input tax credit availed under this Act for payment
tax credit. of tax dues under the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017
(Central Act 13 of 2017) in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (5)
of section 49, as reflected in the valid return furnished under sub-section (1)
of section 39, the amount collected as State tax shall stand reduced by an
amount equal to such credit so utilised and the State Government shall transfer
an amount equal to the amount so reduced from the State tax account to the
integrated tax account in such manner and within such time, as may be
prescribed.
CHAPTER XI
REFUNDS
Refund of tax. 54. (1) Any person claiming refund of any tax and interest, if any, paid on
such tax or any other amount paid by him, may make an application before the
expiry of two years from the relevant date in such form and manner, as may
be prescribed:
Provided that a registered person, claiming refund of any balance
in the electronic cash ledger in accordance with the provisions of
sub-section (6) of section 49, may claim such refund in the return furnished
under section 39 in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(2) A specialized agency of the United Nations Organization or any
Multilateral Financial Institution and Organization notified under the United
Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947 (Central Act 46 of 1947),
Consulate or Embassy of foreign countries or any other person or class of
persons, as notified under section 55, entitled to a refund of tax paid by it on
inward supplies of goods or services or both, may make an application for
such refund, in such form and manner, as may be prescribed, before the expiry
of six months from the last day of the quarter in which such supply was
received.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1259
(3) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (10), a registered person may
claim refund of any unutilised input tax credit at the end of any tax period:
Provided that no refund of unutilised input tax credit shall be allowed
in cases other than-
(i) zero-rated supplies made without payment of tax;
(ii) where the credit has accumulated on account of rate of tax on
inputs being higher than the rate of tax on output supplies (other
than nil rated or fully exempt supplies), except supplies of goods
or services or both as may be notified by the Government on the
recommendations of the Council:
Provided further that no refund of unutilised input tax credit shall be
allowed in cases where the goods exported out of India are subjected to export
duty:
Provided further that no refund of input tax credit shall be allowed, if
the supplier of goods or services or both claims refund of the integrated tax paid
on such supplies.
(4) The application shall be accompanied by —
(a) such documentary evidence as may be prescribed to establish
that a refund is due to the applicant; and
(b) such documentary or other evidence (including the documents
referred to in section 33) as the applicant may furnish to
establish that the amount of tax and interest, if any, paid on such
tax or any other amount paid in relation to which such refund is
claimed was collected from, or paid by, him and the incidence
of such tax and interest had not been passed on to any other
person:
Provided that where the amount claimed as refund is less than two
lakh rupees, it shall not be necessary for the applicant to furnish any
documentary and other evidences but he may file a declaration, based on the
documentary or other evidences available with him, certifying that the incidence
of such tax and interest had not been passed on to any other person.
(5) If, on receipt of any such application, the proper officer is satisfied
that the whole or part of the amount claimed as refund is refundable, he may
make an order accordingly and the amount so determined shall be credited to the
Fund referred to in section 57.
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (5), the proper
officer may, in the case of any claim for refund on account of zero-rated supply
of goods or services or both made by registered persons, other than such category
of registered persons as may be notified by the Government on the
recommendations of the Council, refund on a provisional basis, ninety percent
of the total amount so claimed, excluding the amount of input tax credit
provisionally accepted, in such manner and subject to such conditions,
limitations and safeguards, as may be prescribed and thereafter make an order
under sub-section (5) for final settlement of the refund claim after due
verification of documents furnished by the applicant.

1260 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(7) The proper officer shall issue the order under sub-section (5) within
sixty days from the date of receipt of application complete in all respects.
(8) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (5), the refundable
amount shall, instead of being credited to the Fund, be paid to the applicant, if
such amount is relatable to –
(a) refund of tax paid on zero-rated supplies of goods or services or
both or on inputs or input services used in making such zero-
rated supplies;
(b) refund of unutilised input tax credit under sub-section (3);
(c) refund of tax paid on a supply which is not provided, either
wholly or partially, and for which invoice has not been issued, or
where a refund voucher has been issued;
(d) refund of tax in pursuance of section 77;
(e) the tax and interest, if any, or any other amount paid by the
applicant, if he had not passed on the incidence of such tax and
interest to any other person; or
(f) the tax or interest borne by such other class of applicants as the
Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, by
notification, specify.
(9) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any judgment,
decree, order or direction of the Appellate Tribunal or any court or in any other
provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder or in any other law for the
time being in force, no refund shall be made except in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (8).
(10) Where any refund is due under sub-section (3) to a registered person
who has defaulted in furnishing any return or who is required to pay any tax,
interest or penalty, which has not been stayed by any court, Tribunal or Appellate
Authority by the specified date, the proper officer may-
(a) withhold payment of refund due until the said person has
furnished the return or paid the tax, interest or penalty, as the
case may be;
(b) deduct from the refund due, any tax, interest, penalty, fee or any
other amount which the taxable person is liable to pay but which
remains unpaid under this Act or under the existing law.
Expl anation. — For the purposes of this sub-section, the expression
“specified date” shall mean the last date for filing
an appeal under this Act.
(11) Where an order giving rise to a refund is the subject matter of an appeal
or further proceedings or where any other proceedings under this Act is pending
and the Commissioner is of the opinion that grant of such refund is likely to
adversely affect the revenue in the said appeal or other proceedings on account
of malfeasance or fraud committed, he may, after giving the taxable person an
opportunity of being heard, withhold the refund till such time as he may
determine.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1261
(12) Where a refund is withheld under sub-section (11), the taxable
person shall, notwithstanding anything contained in section 56, be entitled to
interest at such rate not exceeding six percent as may be notified on the
recommendations of the Council, if as a result of the appeal or further
proceedings he becomes entitled to refund.
(13) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this section,
the amount of advance tax deposited by a casual taxable person or a
non-resident taxable person under sub-section (2) of section 27, shall not be
refunded unless such person has, in respect of the entire period for which the
certificate of registration granted to him had remained in force, furnished all
the returns required under section 39.
(14) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, no refund under
sub-section (5) or sub-section (6) shall be paid to an applicant, if the amount is
less than one thousand rupees.
Explanation . — For the purposes of this section,-
(1) “refund” includes refund of tax paid on zero -rated supplies of
goods or services or both or on inputs or input services used in
making such zero-rated supplies, or refund of tax on the supply
of goods regarded as deemed exports, or refund of unutilised
input tax credit as provided under sub-section (3).
(2) “relevant date” means –
(a) in the case of goods exported out of India where a refund
of tax paid is available in respect of goods themselves or,
as the case may be, the inputs or input services used in such
goods,-
(i) if the goods are exported by sea or air, the date on
which the ship or the aircraft in which such goods are
loaded, leaves India; or
(ii) if the goods are exported by land, the date on which
such goods pass the frontier; or
(iii) if the goods are exported by post, the date of despatch
of goods by the Post Office concerned to a place
outside India;
(b) in the case of supply of goods regarded as deemed exports
where a refund of tax paid is available in respect of the
goods, the date on which the return relating to such deemed
exports is furnished;
(c) in the case of services exported out of India where a refund
of tax paid is available in respect of services themselves or,
as the case may be, the inputs or input services used in such
services, the date of ––
(i) receipt of payment in convertible foreign exchange,
where the supply of services had been completed prior
to the receipt of such payment; or
(ii) issue of invoice, where payment for the services had
been received in advance prior to the date of issue of
the invoice;

1262 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(d) in case where the tax becomes refundable as a consequence
of judgment, decree, order or direction of the Appellate
Authority, Appellate Tribunal or any court, the date of
communication of such judgment, decree, order or direction;
(e) in the case of refund of unutilised input tax credit under sub-
section (3), the end of the financial year in which such claim
for refund arises;
(f) in the case where tax is paid provisionally under this Act or
the rules made thereunder, the date of adjustment of tax after
the final assessment thereof;
(g) in the case of a person, other than the supplier, the date of
receipt of goods or services or both by such person; and
(h) in any other case, the date of payment of tax.
Refund in certain 55. The Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, by
cases.
notification, specify any specialized agency of the United Nations Organization
or any Multilateral Financial Institution and Organization notified under the
United Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947 (Central Act 46 of 1947),
Consulate or Embassy of foreign countries and any other person or class of
persons as may be specified in this behalf, who shall, subject to such conditions
and restrictions, as may be prescribed, be entitled to claim a refund of taxes paid
on the notified supplies of goods or services or both received by them.
Interest on 56. If any tax ordered to be refunded under sub-section (5) of section 54 to any delayed refunds.
applicant is not refunded within sixty days from the date of receipt of application
under sub-section (1) of that section, interest at such rate not exceeding six
percent as may be specified in the notification issued by the Government on the
recommendations of the Council shall be payable in respect of such refund from
the date immediately after the expiry of sixty days from the date of receipt of
application under the said sub-section till the date of refund of such tax:
Provided that where any claim of refund arises from an order passed by an
adjudicating authority or Appellate Authority or Appellate Tribunal or court
which has attained finality and the same is not refunded within sixty days from
the date of receipt of application filed consequent to such order, interest at such
rate not exceeding nine percent as may be notified by the Government on the
recommendations of the Council shall be payable in respect of such refund from
the date immediately after the expiry of sixty days from the date of receipt of
application till the date of refund.
Explanation. — For the purposes of this section, where any order of refund is
made by an Appellate Authority, Appellate Tribunal or any
court against an order of the proper officer under sub-section
(5) of section 54, the order passed by the Appellate Authority,
Appellate Tribunal or by the court shall be deemed to be an
order passed under the said sub-section (5).

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1263
57. The Government shall constitute a Fund, to be called the Consumer Consumer Welfare
Welfare Fund and there shall be credited to the Fund, –– Fund.
(a) the amount referred to in sub-section (5) of section 54;
(b) any income from investment of the amount credited to the Fund;
and
(c) such other monies received by it,
in such manner, as may be prescribed.
58. (1) All sums credited to the Fund shall be utilised by the Government Utilisation of Fund.
for the welfare of the consumers in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(2) The Government or the authority specified by it shall maintain
proper and separate account and other relevant records in relation to the Fund
and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form, as may be
prescribed in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
CHAPTER – XII
ASSESSMENT
59. Every registered person shall self-assess the taxes payable under this Act Self - assessment.
and furnish a return for each tax period as specified under section 39.
60. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), where the taxable Provisional
person is unable to determine the value of goods or services or both or assessment.
determine the rate of tax applicable thereto, he may request the proper officer
in writing giving reasons for payment of tax on a provisional basis and the
proper officer shall pass an order, within a period not later than ninety days
from the date of receipt of such request, allowing payment of tax on
provisional basis at such rate or on such value as may be specified by him.
(2) The payment of tax on provisional basis may be allowed, if the
taxable person executes a bond in such form, as may be prescribed, and with
such surety or security as the proper officer may deem fit, binding the taxable
person for payment of the difference between the amount of tax as may be
finally assessed and the amount of tax provisionally assessed.
(3) The proper officer shall, within a period not exceeding six months
from the date of the communication of the order issued under sub-section (1),
pass the final assessment order after taking into account such information as
may be required for finalizing the assessment:
Provided that the period specified in this sub-section may, on
sufficient cause being shown and for reasons to be recorded in writing, be
extended by the Joint Commissioner or Additional Commissioner for a
further period not exceeding six months and by the Commissioner for such
further period not exceeding four years.

1264 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(4) The registered person shall be liable to pay interest on any tax
payable on the supply of goods or services or both under provisional
assessment but not paid on the due date specified under sub-section (7) of
section 39 or the rules made thereunder, at the rate specified under sub-section
(1) of section 50, from the first day after the due date of payment of tax in
respect of the said supply of goods or services or both till the date of actual
payment, whether such amount is paid before or after the issuance of order for
final assessment.
(5) Where the registered person is entitled to a refund consequent to the
order of final assessment under sub-section (3), subject to the provisions of
sub-section (8) of section 54, interest shall be paid on such refund as provided
in section 56.
Scrutiny of returns. 61. (1) The proper officer may scrutinize the return and related particulars
furnished by the registered person to verify the correctness of the return and
inform him of the discrepancies noticed, if any, in such manner as may be
prescribed and seek his explanation thereto.
(2) In case the explanation is found acceptable, the registered person
shall be informed accordingly and no further action shall be taken in this
regard.
(3) In case no satisfactory explanation is furnished within a period of
thirty days of being informed by the proper officer or such further period, as
may be permitted by him or where the registered person, after accepting the
discrepancies, fails to take the corrective measurein his return for the month
in which the discrepancy is accepted, the proper officer may initiate
appropriate action including those under section 65 or section 66 or section
67, or proceed to determine the tax and other dues under section 73 or section
74.
Assessment of 62. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in section 73 or
non - filers of section 74, where a registered person fails to furnish the return under section returns.
39 or section 45, even after the service of a notice under section 46, the proper
officer may proceed to assess the tax liability of the said person to the best of
his judgement taking into account all the relevant material which is available
or which he has gathered and issue an assessment order within a period of five
years from the date specified under section 44 for furnishing of the annual
return for the financial year to which the tax not paid relates.
(2) Where the registered person furnishes a valid return within thirty
days of the service of the assessment order under sub-section (1), the said
assessment order shall be deemed to have been withdrawn but the liability for
payment of interest under sub-section (1) of section 50 or for payment of late
fee under section 47 shall continue.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1265
63. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in section 73 or Assessment of
section 74, where a taxable person fails to obtain registration even though unregistered
persons.
liable to do so or whose registration has been cancelled under sub-section (2)
of section 29 but who was liable to pay tax, the proper officer may proceed to
assess the tax liability of such taxable person to the best of his judgment for
the relevant tax periods and issue an assessment order within a period of five
years from the date specified under section 44 for furnishing of the annual
return for the financial year to which the tax not paid relates:
Provided that no such assessment order shall be passed without giving
the person an opportunity of being heard.
64. (1) The proper officer may, on any evidence showing a tax liability of Summary
a person coming to his notice, with the previous permission of Additional assessment in certain
special cases. Commissioner or Joint Commissioner, proceed to assess the tax liability of
such person to protect the interest of revenue and issue an assessment order,
if he has sufficient grounds to believe that any delay in doing so may
adversely affect the interest of revenue:
Provided that where the taxable person to whom the liability
pertains is not ascertainable and such liability pertains to supply of goods, the
person in charge of such goods shall be deemed to be the taxable person liable
to be assessed and liable to pay tax and any other amount due under this
section.
(2) On an application made by the taxable person within thirty days
from the date of receipt of order passed under sub-section (1) or on his own
motion, if the Additional Commissioner or Joint Commissioner considers that
such order is erroneous, he may withdraw such order and follow the procedure
laid down in section 73 or section 74.
CHAPTER XIII
AUDIT
65. (1) The Commissioner or any officer authorised by him, by way of a Audit by tax
general or a specific order, may undertake audit of any registered person for authorities .
such period, at such frequency and in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(2) The officers referred to in sub-section (1) may conduct audit at the
place of business of the registered person or in their office.
(3) The registered person shall be informed by way of a notice not less
than fifteen working days prior to the conduct of audit in such manner, as may
be prescribed.
(4) The audit under sub-section (1) shall be completed within a period
of three months from the date of commencement of the audit:
Provided that where the Commissioner is satisfied that audit in
respect of such registered person cannot be completed within three months,
he may, for the reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the period by a
further period not exceeding six months.

1266 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
Explanation. — For the purposes of this sub-section, the
expression “commencement of audit” shall mean
the date on which the records and other
documents, called for by the tax authorities, are
made available by the registered person or the
actual institution of audit at the place of business,
whichever is later.
(5) During the course of audit, the authorised officer may require the
registered person, ––
(i) to afford him the necessary facility to verify the books of
account or other documents, as he may require;
(ii) to furnish such information, as he may require and render
assistance for timely completion of the audit.
(6) On conclusion of audit, the proper officer shall, within thirty days,
inform the registered person, whose records are audited, about the findings,
his rights and obligations and the reasons for such findings.
(7) Where the audit conducted under sub-section (1) results in
detection of tax not paid or short paid or erroneously refunded, or input tax
credit wrongly availed or utilised, the proper officer may initiate action under
section 73 or section 74.
Special audit. 66. (1) If at any stage of scrutiny, inquiry, investigation or any other
proceedings before him, any officer not below the rank of Assistant
Commissioner, having regard to the nature and complexity of the case and the
interest of revenue, is of the opinion that the value has not been correctly
declared or the credit availed is not within the normal limits, he may, with the
prior approval of the Commissioner, direct such registered person by a
communication in writing to get his records including books of account
examined and audited by a chartered accountant or a cost accountant as may
be nominated by the Commissioner.
(2) The chartered accountant or cost accountant so nominated shall,
within the period of ninety days, submit a report of such audit duly signed and
certified by him to the said Assistant Commissioner mentioning therein such
other particulars as may be specifi ed:
Provided that the Assistant Commissioner may, on an application
made to him in this behalf by the registered person or the chartered accountant
or cost accountant or for any material and sufficient reason, extend the said
period by a further period of ninety days.
(3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall have effect notwithstanding
that the accounts of the registered person have been audited under any other
provisions of this Act or any other law for the time being in force.
(4) The registered person shall be given an opportunity of being heard
in respect of any material gathered on the basis of special audit under sub-
section (1) which is proposed to be used in any proceedings against him under
this Act or the rules made thereunder.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1267
(5) The expenses of the examination and audit of records under
sub-section (1), including the remuneration of such chartered accountant or
cost accountant, shall be determined and paid by the Commissioner and such
determination shall be final.
(6) Where the special audit conducted under sub-section (1) results in
detection of tax not paid or short paid or erroneously refunded, or input tax
credit wrongly availed or utilised, the proper officer may initiate action under
section 73 or section 74.
CHAPTER XIV
INSPECTION, SEARCH, SEIZURE AND ARREST
67. (1) Where the proper officer, not below the rank of Joint Power of inspection,
Commissioner, has reasons to believe that – search and seizure.
(a) a taxable person has suppressed any transaction relating to
supply of goods or services or both or the stock of goods in
hand, or has claimed input tax credit in excess of his
entitlement under this Act or has indulged in contravention
of any of the provisions of this Act or the rules made
thereunder to evade tax under this Act; or
(b) any person engaged in the business of transporting goods or
an owner or operator of a warehouse or a godown or any
other place is keeping goods which have escaped payment of
tax or has kept his accounts or goods in such a manner as is
likely to cause evasion of tax payable under this Act,
he may authorise in writing any other officer of State tax to inspect any places
of business of the taxable person or the persons engaged in the business of
transporting goods or the owner or the operator of warehouse or godown or
any other place.
(2) Where the proper officer, not below the rank of Joint
Commissioner, either pursuant to an inspection carried out under sub-section
(1) or otherwise, has reasons to believe that any goods liable to confiscation
or any documents or books or things, which in his opinion shall be useful for
or relevant to any proceedings under this Act, are secreted in any place, he
may authorise in writing any other officer of State tax to search and seize or
may himself search and seize such goods, documents or books or things:
Provided that where it is not practicable to seize any such goods,
the proper officer, or any officer authorised by him, may serve on the owner
or the custodian of the goods an order that he shall not remove, part with, or
otherwise deal with the goods except with the previous permission of such
officer:
Provided further that the documents or books or things so seized
shall be retained by such officer only for so long as may be necessary for their
examination and for any inquiry or proceedings under this Act.

1268 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(3) The documents, books or things referred to in sub-section (2) or
any other documents, books or things produced by a taxable person or any
other person, which have not been relied upon for the issue of notice under
this Act or the rules made thereunder, shall be returned to such person within
a period not exceeding thirty days of the issue of the said notice.
(4) The officer authorised under sub-section (2) shall have the power
to seal or break open the door of any premises or to break open any almirah,
electronic devices, box, receptacle in which any goods, accounts, registers or
documents of the person are suspected to be concealed, where access to such
premises, almirah, electronic devices, box or receptacle is denied.
(5) The person from whose custody any documents are seized under
sub-section (2) shall be entitled to make copies thereof or take extracts
therefrom in the presence of an authorised officer at such place and time as
such officer may indicate in this behalf except where making such copies or
taking such extracts may, in the opinion of the proper officer, prejudicially
affect the investigation.
(6) The goods so seized under sub-section (2) shall be released, on a
provisional basis, upon execution of a bond and furnishing of a security, in
such manner and of such quantum, respectively, as may be prescribed or on
payment of applicable tax, interest and penalty payable, as the case may be.
(7) Where any goods are seized under sub-section (2) and no notice in
respect thereof is given within six months of the seizure of the goods, the
goods shall be returned to the person from whose possession they were seized:
Provided that the period of six months may, on sufficient cause
being shown, be extended by the proper officer for a further period not
exceeding six months.
(8) The Government may, having regard to the perishable or hazardous
nature of any goods, depreciation in the value of the goods with the passage
of time, constraints of storage space for the goods or any other relevant
considerations, by notification, specify the goods or class of goods which
shall, as soon as may be after its seizure under sub-section (2), be disposed of
by the proper officer in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(9) Where any goods, being goods specified under sub-section (8),
have been seized by a proper officer, or any officer authorised by him under
sub-section (2), he shall prepare an inventory of such goods in such manner,
as may be prescribed.
(10) The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central
Act 2 of 1974), relating to search and seizure, shall, so far as may be, apply
to search and seizure under this section subject to the modification that
sub-section (5) of section 165 of the said Code shall have effect as if for the
word “Magistrate”, wherever it occurs, the word “Commissioner” were
substituted.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1269
(11) Where the proper officer has reasons to believe that any person has
evaded or is attempting to evade the payment of any tax, he may, for reasons
to be recorded in writing, seize the accounts, registers or documents of such
person produced before him and shall grant a receipt for the same, and shall
retain the same for so long as may be necessary in connection with any
proceedings under this Act or the rules made thereunder for prosecution.
(12) The Commissioner or an officer authorised by him may cause
purchase of any goods or services or both by any person authorised by him
from the business premises of any taxable person, to check the issue of tax
invoices or bills of supply by such taxable person, and on return of goods so
purchased by such officer, such taxable person or any person in charge of the
business premises shall refund the amount so paid towards the goods after
cancelling any tax invoice or bill of supply issued earlier.
68. (1) The Government may require the person in charge of a conveyance Inspection of goods
carrying any consignment of goods of value exceeding such amount as may in movement.
be specified to carry with him such documents and such devices, as may be
prescribed.
(2) The details of documents required to be carried under
sub-section (1) shall be validated in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(3) Where any conveyance referred to in sub-section (1) is intercepted
by the proper officer at any place, he may require the person in charge of the
said conveyance to produce the documents prescribed under the said sub-
section and devices for verification, and the said person shall be liable to
produce the documents and devices and also allow the inspection of goods.
69. (1) Where the Commissioner has reasons to believe that a person Power to arrest.
has committed any offence specified in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c)
or clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 132 which is punishable under
clause (i) or (ii) of sub-section (1), or sub-section (2) of the said section, he
may, by order, authorise any officer of State tax to arrest such person.
(2) Where a person is arrested under sub-section (1) for an offence
specified under sub-section (5) of section 132, the officer authorised to arrest
the person shall inform such person of the grounds of arrest and produce him
before a Magistrate within twenty four hours.
(3) Subject to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(Central Act 2 of 1974),-
(a) where a person is arrested under sub-section (1) for any
offence specified under sub-section (4) of section 132, he
shall be admitted to bail or in default of bail, forwarded to the
custody of the Magistrate;

1270 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(b) in the case of a non-cognizable and bailable offence, the
Deputy Commissioner or the Assistant Commissioner shall,
for the purpose of releasing an arrested person on bail or
otherwise, have the same powers and be subject to the same
provisions as an officer-in-charge of a police station.
Power to summon 70. (1) The proper officer under this Act shall have power to summon any
persons to give person whose attendance he considers necessary either to give evidence or to
evidence and
produce documents. produce a document or any other thing in any inquiry in the same manner, as
provided in the case of a civil court under the provisions of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908).
(2) Every such inquiry referred to in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to
be a “judicial proceedin gs” within the meaning of section 193 and section 228
of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act 45 of 1860).
Access to business 71. (1) Any officer under this Act, authorised by the proper officer not
premises. below the rank of Joint Commissioner, shall have access to any place of
business of a registered person to inspect books of account, documents,
computers, computer programs, computer software whether installed in a
computer or otherwise and such other things as he may require and which may
be available at such place, for the purposes of carrying out any audit, scrutiny,
verification and checks as may be necessary to safeguard the interest of
revenue.
(2) Every person in charge of place referred to in sub-section (1) shall,
on demand, make available to the officer authorised under sub-section (1) or
the audit party deputed by the proper officer or a cost accountant or chartered
accountant nominated under section 66 ––
(i) such records as prepared or maintained by the registered
person and declared to the proper officer in such manner as
may be prescribed;
(ii) trial balance or its equivalent;
(iii) statements of annual financial accounts, duly audited,
wherever required;
(iv) cost audit report, if any, under section 148 of the Companies
Act, 2013 (Central Act 18 of 2013);
(v) the income-tax audit report, if any, under section 44AB of the
Income-tax Act, 1961 (Central Act 43 of 1961); and
(vi) any other relevant record,
for the scrutiny by the officer or audit party or the chartered accountant or
cost accountant within a period not exceeding fifteen working days from the
day when such demand is made, or such further period as may be allowed by
the said officer or the audit party or the chartered accountant or cost
accountant.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1271
72. (1) All officers of Police, Railways, Customs, and those officers Officers to assist
engaged in the collection of land revenue, including village officers, officers proper officers .
of central tax and officers of the Union territory tax shall assist the proper
officers in the implementation of this Act.
(2) The Government may, by notification, empower and require any
other class of officers to assist the proper officers in the implementation of
this Act when called upon to do so by the Commissioner.
CHAPTER XV
DEMANDS AN D RECOVERY
73. (1) Where it appears to the proper officer that any tax has not been Determination of tax
paid or short paid or erroneously refunded, or where input tax credit has been not paid or short
paid or erroneously
wrongly availed or utilised for any reason, other than the reason of fraud or refunded or input tax
any wilful- misstatement or suppression of facts to evade tax, he shall serve credit wrongly
notice on the person chargeable with tax which has not been so paid or which availed or utilised
has been so short paid or to whom the refund has erroneously been made, or for any reason other
than fraud or any
who has wrongly availed or utilised input tax credit, requiring him to show wilful - misstatement
cause as to why he should not pay the amount specified in the notice along or suppression of
with interest payable thereon under section 50 and a penalty leviable under facts.
the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder.
(2) The proper officer shall issue the notice under sub-section (1) at
least three months prior to the time limit specified in sub-section (10) for
issuance of order.
(3) Where a notice has been issued for any period under sub-section
(1), the proper officer may serve a statement, containing the details of tax not
paid or short paid or erroneously refunded or input tax credit wrongly availed
or utilised for such periods other than those covered under
sub-section (1), on the person chargeable with tax.
(4) The service of such statement shall be deemed to be service of
notice on such person under sub-section (1), subject to the condition that the
grounds relied upon for such tax periods other than those covered under
sub-section (1) are the same as are mentioned in the earlier notice.
(5) The person chargeable with tax may, before service of notice under
sub-section (1) or, as the case may be, the statement under
sub-section (3), pay the amount of tax along with interest payable thereon
under section 50 on the basis of his own ascertainment of such tax or the tax
as ascertained by the proper officer and inform the proper officer in writing
of such payment.
(6) The proper officer, on receipt of such information, shall not serve
any notice under sub-section (1) or, as the case may be, the statement under
sub-section (3), in respect of the tax so paid or any penalty payable under the
provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder.

1272 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(7) Where the proper officer is of the opinion that the amount paid
under sub-section (5) falls short of the amount actually payable, he shall
proceed to issue the notice as provided for in sub-section (1) in respect of such
amount which falls short of the amount actually payable.
(8) Where any person chargeable with tax under sub-section (1) or sub-
section (3) pays the said tax along with interest payable under section 50
within thirty days of issue of show cause notice, no penalty shall be payable
and all proceedings in respect of the said notice shall be deemed to be
concluded.
(9) The proper officer shall, after considering the representation, if
any, made by person chargeable with tax, determine the amount of tax,
interest and a penalty equivalent to ten percent of tax or ten thousand rupees,
whichever is higher, due from such person and issue an order.
(10) The proper officer shall issue the order under sub-section (9) within
three years from the due date for furnishing of annual return for the financial
year to which the tax not paid or short paid or input tax credit wrongly availed
or utilised relates to or within three years from the date of erroneous refund.
(11) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (6) or
sub-section (8), penalty under sub-section (9) shall be payable where any
amount of self-assessed tax or any amount collected as tax has not been paid
within a period of thirty days from the due date of payment of such tax.
Determination of tax 74. (1) Where it appears to the proper officer that any tax has not been paid
not paid or short or short paid or erroneously refunded or where input tax credit has been
paid or erroneously
refunded or input wrongly availed or utilised by reason of fraud, or any wilful - misstatement or
tax credit wrongly suppression of facts to evade tax, he shall serve notice on the person
availed or utilised chargeable with tax which has not been so paid or which has been so short
by reason of fraud or paid or to whom the refund has erroneously been made, or who has wrongly any wilful -
misstatement or availed or utilised input tax credit, requiring him to show cause as to why he
suppression of facts. should not pay the amount specified in the notice along with interest payable
thereon under section 50 and a penalty equivalent to the tax specified in the
notice.
(2) The proper officer shall issue the notice under sub-section (1) at
least six months prior to the time limit specified in sub-section (10) for
issuance of order.
(3) Where a notice has been issued for any period under
sub-section (1), the proper officer may serve a statement, containing the
details of tax not paid or short paid or erroneously refunded or input tax credit
wrongly availed or utilised for such periods other than those covered under
sub-section (1), on the person chargeable with tax.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1273
(4) The service of statement under sub-section (3) shall be deemed to
be service of notice under sub-section (1) of section 73, subject to the
condition that the grounds relied upon in the said statement, except the ground
of fraud, or any wilful-misstatement or suppression of facts to evade tax, for
periods other than those covered under sub-section (1) are the same as are
mentioned in the earlier notice.
(5) The person chargeable with tax may, before service of notice under
sub-section (1), pay the amount of tax along with interest payable under
section 50 and a penalty equivalent to fifteen percent of such tax on the basis
of his own ascertainment of such tax or the tax as ascertained by the proper
officer and inform the proper officer in writing of such payment.
(6) The proper officer, on receipt of such information, shall not serve
any notice under sub-section (1), in respect of the tax so paid or any penalty
payable under the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder.
(7) Where the proper officer is of the opinion that the amount paid
under sub-section (5) falls short of the amount actually payable, he shall
proceed to issue the notice as provided for in sub-section (1) in respect of such
amount which falls short of the amount actually payable.
(8) Where any person chargeable with tax under sub-section (1) pays
the said tax along with interest payable under section 50 and a penalty
equivalent to twenty five percent of such tax within thirty days of issue of the
notice, all proceedings in respect of the said notice shall be deemed to be
concluded.
(9) The proper officer shall, after considering the representation, if
any, made by the person chargeable with tax, determine the amount of tax,
interest and penalty due from such person and issue an order.
(10) The proper officer shall issue the order under sub-section (9) within
a period of five years from the due date for furnishing of annual return for the
financial year to which the tax not paid or short paid or input tax credit
wrongly availed or utilised relates to or within five years from the date of
erroneous refund.
(11) Where any person served with an order issued under sub-section
(9) pays the tax along with interest payable thereon under section 50 and a
penalty equivalent to fifty percent of such tax within thirty days of
communication of the order, all proceedings in respect of the said notice shall
be deemed to be concluded.
Explanation 1. — For the purposes of section 73 and this section,-
(i) the expression “all proceedings in respect
of the said notice” shall not include
proceedings under section 132;

1274 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(ii) where the notice under the same
proceedings is issued to the main person
liable to pay tax and some other persons,
and such proceedings against the main
person have been concluded under section
73 or section 74, the proceedings against all
the persons liable to pay penalty under
sections 122, 125, 129 and 130 are deemed
to be concluded.
Explanation 2 . — For the purposes of this Act, the expression
“supperssion” shall mean non -declaration of
facts or information which a taxable person is
required to declare in the return, statement,
report or any other document furnished under
this Act or the rules made thereunder, or failure
to furnish any information on being asked for, in
writing, by the proper officer.
General 75. (1) Where the service of notice or issuance of order is stayed by an order
provisions of a court or Appellate Tribunal, the period of such stay shall be excluded in relating to
determination of computing the period specified in sub-sections (2) and (10) of section 73 or sub-
tax. sections (2) and (10) of section 74, as the case may be.
(2) Where any Appellate Authority or Appellate Tribunal or court
concludes that the notice issued under sub-section (1) of section 74 is not
sustainable for the reason that the charges of fraud or any wilful-misstatement
or suppression of facts to evade tax has not been established against the person
to whom the notice was issued, the proper officer shall determine the tax payable
by such person, deeming as if the notice were issued under sub-section (1) of
section 73.
(3) Where any order is required to be issued in pursuance of the direction
of the Appellate Authority or Appellate Tribunal or a court, such order shall be
issued within two years from the date of communication of the said direction.
(4) An opportunity of hearing shall be granted where a request is
received in writing from the person chargeable with tax or penalty, or where any
adverse decision is contemplated against such person.
(5) The proper officer shall, if sufficient cause is shown by the person
chargeable with tax, grant time to the said person and adjourn the hearing for
reasons to be recorded in writing:
Provided that no such adjournment shall be granted for more than
three times to a person during the proceedings.
(6) The proper officer, in his order, shall set out the relevant facts and the
basis of his decision.
(7) The amount of tax, interest and penalty demanded in the order shall
not be in excess of the amount specified in the notice and no demand shall be
confirmed on the grounds other than the grounds specified in the notice.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1275
(8) Where the Appellate Authority or Appellate Tribunal or court
modifies the amount of tax determined by the proper officer, the amount of
interest and penalty shall stand modified accordingly, taking into account the
amount of tax so modified.
(9) The interest on the tax short paid or not paid shall be payable whether
or not specified in the order determining the tax liability.
(10) The adjudication proceedings shall be deemed to be concluded, if the
order is not issued within three years as provided for in sub-section (10) of
section 73 or within five years as provided for in sub-section (10) of
section 74.
(11) An issue on which the Appellate Authority or the Appellate Tribunal
or the High Court has given its decision which is prejudicial to the interest of
revenue in some other proceedings and an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal or
the High Court or the Supreme Court against such decision of the Appellate
Authority or the Appellate Tribunal or the High Court is pending, the period
spent between the date of the decision of the Appellate Authority and that of
the Appellate Tribunal or the date of decision of the Appellate Tribunal and
that of the High Court or the date of the decision of the High Court and that of
the Supreme Court shall be excluded in computing the period referred to in sub-
section (10) of section 73 or sub-section (10) of section 74 where proceedings
are initiated by way of issue of a show cause notice under the said sections.
(12) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 73 or section 74,
where any amount of self-assessed tax in accordance with a return furnished
under section 39 remains unpaid, either wholly or partly, or any amount of
interest payable on such tax remains unpaid, the same shall be recovered under
the provisions of section 79.
(13) Where any penalty is imposed under section 73 or section 74,
no penalty for the same act or omission shall be imposed on the same person
under any other provision of this Act.
76. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any order or Tax collected but
not paid to direction of any Appellate Authority or Appellate Tribunal or court or in any Government.
other provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder or any other law for
the time being in force, every person who has collected from any other person
any amount as representing the tax under this Act, and has not paid the said
amount to the Government, shall forthwith pay the said amount to the
Government, irrespective of whether the supplies in respect of which such
amount was collected are taxable or not.
(2) Where any amount is required to be paid to the Government under
sub-section (1), and which has not been so paid, the proper officer may serve
on the person liable to pay such amount a notice requiring him to show cause
as to why the said amount as specified in the notice, should not be paid by him
to the Government and why a penalty equivalent to the amount specified in the
notice should not be imposed on him under the provisions of this Act.

1276 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(3) The proper officer shall, after considering the representation, if any,
made by the person on whom the notice is served under sub-section (2),
determine the amount due from such person and thereupon such person shall
pay the amount so determined.
(4) The person referred to in sub-section (1) shall in addition to paying
the amount referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (3) also be liable to
pay interest thereon at the rate specified under section 50 from the date such
amount was collected by him to the date such amount is paid by him to the
Government.
(5) An opportunity of hearing shall be granted where a request is
received in writing from the person to whom the notice was issued to show
cause.
(6) The proper officer shall issue an order within one year from the date
of issue of the notice.
(7) Where the issuance of order is stayed by an order of the court or
Appellate Tribunal, the period of such stay shall be excluded in computing the
period of one year.
(8) The proper officer, in his order, shall set out the relevant facts and
the basis of his decision.
(9) The amount paid to the Government under sub-section (1) or
sub-section (3) shall be adjusted against the tax payable, if any, by the person
in relation to the supplies referred to in sub-section (1).
(10) Where any surplus is left after the adjustment under sub-section (9),
the amount of such surplus shall either be credited to the Fund or refunded to
the person who has borne the incidence of such amount.
(11) The person who has borne the incidence of the amount, may apply
for the refund of the same in accordance with the provisions of section 54.
Tax wrongfully 77. (1) A registered person who has paid the central tax and State tax on a
collected and paid transaction considered by him to be an intra-State supply, but which is to Central
Government or subsequently held to be an inter-State supply, shall be refunded the amount of
State Government. taxes so paid in such manner and subject to such conditions, as may be
prescribed.
(2) A registered person who has paid integrated tax on a transaction
considered by him to be an inter-State supply, but which is subsequently held
to be an intra-State supply, shall not be required to pay any interest on the
amount of State tax payable.
Initiation of 78. Any amount payable by a taxable person in pursuance of an order passed
r ecovery under this Act shall be paid by such person within a period of three months
proceedings.
from the date of service of such order failing which recovery proceedings shall
be initiated:
Provided that where the proper officer considers it expedient in the
interest of revenue, he may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, require the
said taxable person to make such payment within such period less than a
period of three months as may be specified by him.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1277
79. (1) Where any amount payable by a person to the Government under Recovery of tax.
any of the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder is not paid, the
proper officer shall proceed to recover the amount by one or more of the
following modes, namely: ––
(a) the proper officer may deduct or may require any other
specified officer to deduct the amount so payable from any
money owing to such person which may be under the control
of the proper officer or such other specified officer;
(b) the proper officer may recover or may require any other
specified officer to recover the amount so payable by
detaining and selling any goods belonging to such person
which are under the control of the proper officer or such other
specified officer;
(c) (i) the proper officer may, by a notice in writing, require
any other person from whom money is due or may
become due to such person or who holds or may
subsequently hold money for or on account of such
person, to pay to the Government either forthwith upon
the money becoming due or being held, or within the
time specified in the notice not being before the money
becomes due or is held, so much of the money as is
sufficient to pay the amount due from such person or the
whole of the money when it is equal to or less than that
amount;
(ii) every person to whom the notice is issued under
sub-clause (i) shall be bound to comply with such
notice, and in particular, where any such notice is issued
to a post office, banking company or an insurer, it shall
not be necessary to produce any pass book, deposit
receipt, policy or any other document for the purpose of
any entry, endorsement or the like being made before
payment is made, notwithstanding any rule, practice or
requirement to the contrary;
(iii) in case the person to whom a notice under
sub-clause (i) has been issued, fails to make the
payment in pursuance thereof to the Government, he
shall be deemed to be a defaulter in respect of the
amount specified in the notice and all the consequences
of this Act or the rules made thereunder shall follow;
(iv) the officer issuing a notice under sub-clause (i) may, at
any time, amend or revoke such notice or extend the
time for making any payment in pursuance of the
notice;

1278 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(v) any person making any payment in compliance with a
notice issued under sub-clause (i) shall be deemed to
have made the payment under the authority of the person
in default and such payment being credited to the
Government shall be deemed to constitute a good and
sufficient discharge of the liability of such person to the
person in default to the extent of the amount specified in
the receipt;
(vi) any person discharging any liability to the person in
default after service on him of the notice issued under
sub-clause (i) shall be personally liable to the
Government to the extent of the liability discharged or
to the extent of the liability of the person in default for
tax, interest and penalty, whichever is less;
(vii) where a person on whom a notice is served under
sub-clause (i) proves to the satisfaction of the officer
issuing the notice that the money demanded or any part
thereof was not due to the person in default or that he did
not hold any money for or on account of the person in
default, at the time the notice was served on him, nor is
the money demanded or any part thereof, likely to
become due to the said person or be held for or on
account of such person, nothing contained in this section
shall be deemed to require the person on whom the
notice has been served to pay to the Government any
such money or part thereof;
(d) the proper officer may, in accordance with the rules to be made
in this behalf, distrain any movable or immovable property
belonging to or under the control of such person, and detain the
same until the amount payable is paid; and in case, any part of
the said amount payable or of the cost of the distress or keeping
of the property, remains unpaid for a period of thirty days next
after any such distress, may cause the said property to be sold
and with the proceeds of such sale, may satisfy the amount
payable and the costs including cost of sale remaining unpaid
and shall render the surplus amount, if any, to such person;
(e) the proper officer may prepare a certificate signed by him
specifying the amount due from such person and send it to the
Collector of the district in which such person owns any
property or resides or carries on his business or to any officer
authorised by the Government and the said Collector or the
said officer, on receipt of such certificate, shall proceed to
recover from such person the amount specified thereunder as
if it were an arrear of land revenue;

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1279
(f) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974), the
proper officer may file an application to the appropriate
Magistrate and such Magistrate shall proceed to recover
from such person the amount specified thereunder as if it
were a fine imposed by him.
(2) Where the terms of any bond or other instrument executed under
this Act or any rules or regulations made thereunder provide that any
amount due under such instrument may be recovered in the manner laid
down in sub-section (1), the amount may, without prejudice to any other
mode of recovery, be recovered in accordance with the provisions of that
sub-section.
(3) Where any amount of tax, interest or penalty is payable by a
person to the Government under any of the provisions of this Act or the
rules made thereunder and which remains unpaid, the proper officer of
central tax, during the course of recovery of said tax arrears, may recover
the amount from the said person as if it were an arrear of central tax and
credit the amount so recovered to the account of the Government.
(4) Where the amount recovered under sub-section (3) is less than
the amount due to the Central Government and State Government, the
amount to be credited to the account of the respective Governments shall
be in proportion to the amount due to each such Government.
80. On an application filed by a taxable person, the Commissioner may, Payment of tax and
for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the time for payment or allow other amount in
instalments.
payment of any amount due under this Act, other than the amount due as
per the liability self-assessed in any return, by such person in monthly
instalments not exceeding twenty four, subject to payment of interest
under section 50 and subject to such conditions and limitations, as may be
prescribed:
Provided that where there is default in payment of any one instalment
on its due date, the whole outstanding balance payable on such date shall
become due and payable forthwith and shall, without any further notice
being served on the person, be liable for recovery.
81. Where a person, after any amount has become due from him, creates Transfer of
a charge on or parts with the property belonging to him or in his possession property to be void
in certain cases.
by way of sale, mortgage, exchange, or any other mode of transfer
whatsoever of any of his properties in favour of any other person with the
intention of defrauding the Government revenue, such charge or transfer
shall be void as against any claim in respect of any tax or any other sum
payable by the said person:

1280 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
Provided that, such charge or transfer shall not be void if it is made for
adequate consideration, in good faith and without notice of the pendency of
such proceedings under this Act or without notice of such tax or other sum
payable by the said person, or with the previous permission of the proper
officer.
Tax to be first 82. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law for the
charge on property. time being in force, save as otherwise provided in the Insolvency and
Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (Central Act 31 of 2016), any amount payable by a
taxable person or any other person on account of tax, interest or penalty which
he is liable to pay to the Government shall be a first charge on the property of
such taxable person or such person.
Provisional 83. (1) Where during the pendency of any proceedings under section 62 or
attachment to section 63 or section 64 or section 67 or section 73 or section 74, the
protect revenue in
certain cases. Commissioner is of the opinion that for the purpose of protecting the interest
of the Government revenue, it is necessary so to do, he may, by order in
writing attach provisionally any property, including bank account, belonging
to the taxable person in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(2) Every such provisional attachment shall cease to have effect after
the expiry of a period of one year from the date of the order made under sub-
section (1).
Continuation and 84. Where any notice of demand in respect of any tax, penalty, interest or
validation of certain any other amount payable under this Act, (hereafter in this section referred to
recovery
proceedings. as “Government dues ”), is served upon any taxable person or any other person
and any appeal or revision application is filed or any other proceedings is
initiated in respect of such Government dues, then ––
(a) where such Government dues are enhanced in such appeal, revision
or other proceedings, the Commissioner shall serve upon the
taxable person or any other person another notice of demand in
respect of the amount by which such Government dues are
enhanced and any recovery proceedings in relation to such
Government dues as are covered by the notice of demand served
upon him before the disposal of such appeal, revision or other
proceedings may, without the service of any fresh notice of
demand, be continued from the stage at which such proceedings
stood immediately before such disposal;
(b) where such Government dues are reduced in such appeal, revision
or in other proceedings-
(i) it shall not be necessary for the Commissioner to serve upon
the taxable person a fresh notice of demand;

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1281
(ii) the Commissioner shall give intimation of such reduction to
him and to the appropriate authority with whom recovery
proceedings is pending;
(iii) any recovery proceedings initiated on the basis of the demand
served upon him prior to the disposal of such appeal, revision
or other proceedings may be continued in relation to the
amount so reduced from the stage at which such proceedings
stood immediately before such disposal.
CHAPTER XVI
LIABILITY TO PAY IN CERTAIN CASES
85. (1) Where a taxable person, liable to pay tax under this Act, transfers his Liability in case of
business in whole or in part, by sale, gift, lease, leave and license, hire or in any transfer of
bu siness.
other manner whatsoever, the taxable person and the person to whom the
business is so transferred shall, jointly and severally, be liable wholly or to the
extent of such transfer, to pay the tax, interest or any penalty due from the
taxable person upto the time of such transfer, whether such tax, interest or
penalty has been determined before such transfer, but has remained unpaid or
is determined thereafter.
(2) Where the transferee of a business referred to in sub-section (1)
carries on such business either in his own name or in some other name, he shall
be liable to pay tax on the supply of goods or services or both effected by him
with effect from the date of such transfer and shall, if he is a registered person
under this Act, apply within the prescribed time for amendment of his certificate
of registration.
86. Where an agent supplies or receives any taxable goods on behalf of his Liability of agent
principal, such agent and his principal shall, jointly and severally, be liable to and principal.
pay the tax payable on such goods under this Act.
87. (1) When two or more companies are amalgamated or merged in Liability in case of
pursuance of an order of court or of Tribunal or otherwise and the order is to amalgamation or
merger of
take effect from a date earlier to the date of the order and any two or more of companies.
such companies have supplied or received any goods or services or both to or
from each other during the period commencing on the date from which the order
takes effect till the date of the order, then such transactions of supply and receipt
shall be included in the turnover of supply or receipt of the respective
companies and they shall be liable to pay tax accordingly.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the said order, for the
purposes of this Act, the said two or more companies shall be treated as

1282 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
distinct companies for the period up to the date of the said order and the
registration certificates of the said companies shall be cancelled with
effect from the date of the said order.
Liability in case of 88. (1) When any company is being wound up whether under the orders of
company in a court or Tribunal or otherwise, every person appointed as receiver of any liquidation.
assets of a company (hereafter in this section referred to as the “liquidator”),
shall, within thirty days after his appointment, give intimation of his
appointment to the Commissioner.
(2) The Commissioner shall, after making such inquiry or calling for
such information as he may deem fit, notify the liquidator within three months
from the date on which he receives intimation of the appointment of the
liquidator, the amount which in the opinion of the Commissioner shall be
sufficient to provide for any tax, interest or penalty which is then, or is likely
thereafter to become, payable by the company.
(3) When any private company is wound up and any tax, interest or
penalty determined under this Act on the company for any period, whether
before or in the course of or after its liquidation, cannot be recovered, then
every person who was a director of such company at any time during the
period for which the tax was due shall, jointly and severally, be liable for the
payment of such tax, interest or penalty, unless he proves to the satisfaction of
the Commissioner that such non-recovery cannot be attributed to any gross
neglect, misfeasance or breach of duty on his part in relation to the affairs of
the company.
Liability of 89. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act, 2013
directors of private (Central Act 18 of 2013), where any tax, interest or penalty due from a private
company.
company in respect of any supply of goods or services or both for any period
cannot be recovered, then, every person who was a director of the private
company during such period shall, jointly and severally, be liable for the
payment of such tax, interest or penalty unless he proves that the non-recovery
cannot be attributed to any gross neglect, misfeasance or breach of duty on his
part in relation to the affairs of the company.
(2) Where a private company is converted into a public company and
the tax, interest or penalty in respect of any supply of goods or services or both
for any period during which such company was a private company cannot be
recovered before such conversion, then, nothing contained in sub-section (1)
shall apply to any person who was a director of such private company in
relation to any tax, interest or penalty in respect of such supply of goods or
services or both of such private company:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply to
any personal penalty imposed on such director.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1283
90. Notwithstanding any contract to the contrary and any other law for the Liability of partners
time being in force, where any firm is liable to pay any tax, interest or penalty of firm to pay tax.
under this Act, the firm and each of the partners of the firm shall, jointly and
severally, be liable for such payment:
Provided that where any partner retires from the firm, he or the firm,
shall intimate the date of retirement of the said partner to the Commissioner
by a notice in that behalf in writing and such partner shall be liable to pay tax,
interest or penalty due upto the date of his retirement whether determined or
not, on that date:
Provided further that if no such intimation is given within one month
from the date of retirement, the liability of such partner under the first proviso
shall continue until the date on which such intimation is received by the
Commissioner.
91. Where the business in respect of which any tax, interest or penalty is Liability of
payable under this Act is carried on by any guardian, trustee or agent of a guardians, trustees
etc.
minor or other incapacitated person on behalf of and for the benefit of such
minor or other incapacitated person, the tax, interest or penalty shall be levied
upon and recoverable from such guardian, trustee or agent in like manner and
to the same extent as it shall be determined and recoverable from any such
minor or other incapacitated person, as if he were a major or capacitated
person and as if he were conducting the business himself, and all the
provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder shall apply accordingly.
92. Where the estate or any portion of the estate of a taxable person owning Liability of Court of
a business in respect of which any tax, interest or penalty is payable under Wards, etc.
this Act is under the control of the Court of Wards, the Administrator General,
the Official Trustee or any receiver or manager (including any person,
whatever be his designation, who in fact manages the business) appointed by
or under any order of a court, the tax, interest or penalty shall be levied upon
and be recoverable from such Court of Wards, Administrator General,
Official Trustee, receiver or manager in like manner and to the same extent
as it shall be determined and be recoverable from the taxable person as if he
were conducting the business himself, and all the provisions of this Act or the
rules made thereunder shall apply accordingly.
93. (1) Save as otherwise provided in the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Special provisions
Code, 2016 (Central Act 31 of 2016), where a person, liable to pay tax, regarding liability to
pay tax, interest or
interest or penalty under this Act, dies, then- penalty in certain
cases.
(a) if a business carried on by the person is continued after his
death by his legal representative or any other person,

1284 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
such legal representative or other person, shall be liable to pay
tax, interest or penalty due from such person under this Act;
and
(b) if the business carried on by the person is discontinued,
whether before or after his death, his legal representative shall
be liable to pay, out of the estate of the deceased, to the extent
to which the estate is capable of meeting the charge, the tax,
interest or penalty due from such person under this Act,
whether such tax, interest or penalty has been determined before his death but
has remained unpaid or is determined after his death.
(2) Save as otherwise provided in the Insolvency and Bankruptcy
Code, 2016 (Central Act 31 of 2016), where a taxable person, liable to pay
tax, interest or penalty under this Act, is a Hindu Undivided Family or an
association of persons and the property of the Hindu Undivided Family or the
association of persons is partitioned amongst the various members or groups
of members, then, each member or group of members shall, jointly and
severally, be liable to pay the tax, interest or penalty due from the taxable
person under this Act upto the time of the partition whether such tax, penalty
or interest has been determined before partition but has remained unpaid or is
determined after the partition.
(3) Save as otherwise provided in the Insolvency and Bankruptcy
Code, 2016 (Central Act 31 of 2016), where a taxable person, liable to pay
tax, interest or penalty under this Act, is a firm, and the firm is dissolved, then,
every person who was a partner shall, jointly and severally, be liable to pay
the tax, interest or penalty due from the firm under this Act upto the time of
dissolution whether such tax, interest or penalty has been determined before
the dissolution, but has remained unpaid or is determined after dissolution.
(4) Save as otherwise provided in the Insolvency and Bankruptcy
Code, 2016 (Central Act 31 of 2016), where a taxable person liable to pay tax,
interest or penalty under this Act,-
(a) is the guardian of a ward on whose behalf the business is
carried on by the guardian; or
(b) is a trustee who carries on the business under a trust for a
beneficiary,
then, if the guardianship or trust is terminated, the ward or the beneficiary shall
be liable to pay the tax, interest or penalty due from the taxable person upto
the time of the termination of the guardianship or trust, whether such tax,
interest or penalty has been determined before the termination of guardianship
or trust but has remained unpaid or is determined thereafter.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1285
94. (1) Where a taxable person is a firm or an association of persons or Liability in other
a Hindu Undivided Family and such firm, association or family has cases.
discontinued business-
(a) the tax, interest or penalty payable under this Act by such
firm, association or family upto the date of such
discontinuance may be determined as if no such
discontinuance had taken place; and
(b) every person who, at the time of such discontinuance,
was a partner of such firm, or a member of such
association or family, shall, notwithstanding such
discontinuance, jointly and severally, be liable for the
payment of tax and interest determined and penalty
imposed and payable by such firm, association or family,
whether such tax and interest has been determined or
penalty imposed prior to or after such discontinuance and
subject as aforesaid, the provisions of this Act shall, so
far as may be, apply as if every such person or partner or
member were himself a taxable person.
(2) Where a change has occurred in the constitution of a firm or
an association of persons, the partners of the firm or members of
association, as it existed before and as it exists after the reconstitution,
shall, without prejudice to the provisions of section 90, jointly and
severally, be liable to pay tax, interest or penalty due from such firm or
association for any period before its reconstitution.
(3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall, so far as may be, apply
where the taxable person, being a firm or association of persons is
dissolved or where the taxable person, being a Hindu Undivided Family,
has effected partition with respect to the business carried on by it and
accordingly references in that sub-section to discontinuance shall be
construed as reference to dissolution or to partition.
Expla nation. — For the purposes of this Chapter,-
(i) a “Limited Liability Partnership”
formed and registered under the
provisions of the Limited Liability
Partnership Act, 2008 (Central Act 6 of
2009) shall also be considered as a firm;
(ii) “court” means the District Court, High
Court or Supreme Court.

1286 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
CHAPTER XVII
ADVANCE RULING
Definitions. 95. In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a) “advance ruling” means a decision provided by the Authority or the
Appellate Authority to an applicant on matters or on questions
specified in sub-section (2) of section 97 or sub-section (1) of
section 100, in relation to the supply of goods or services or both
being undertaken or proposed to be undertaken by the applicant;
(b) "Appellate Authority" means the Appellate Authority for Advance
Ruling constituted under section 99;
(c) “applicant” means any person registered or desirous of obtaining
registration under this Act;
(d) “application” means an application made to the Authority under
sub-section (1) of section 97;
(e) “Authority” means the Authority for Advance Ruling, constituted
under section 96.
Constitution of 96. (1) The Government shall, by notification, constitute an Authority
Authority for to be known as the Haryana Authority for Advance Ruling:
Advance Ruling. Provided that the Government may, on the recommendation of
the Council, notify any Authority located in another State to act as the
Authority for the State.
(2) The Authority shall consist of-
(i) one member from amongst the officers of central tax; and
(ii) one member from amongst the officers of State tax,
to be appointed by the Central Government and the State Government
respectively.
(3) The qualifications, the method of appointment of the members
and the terms and conditions of their services shall be such, as may be
prescribed.
Application for 97. (1) An applicant desirous of obtaining an advance ruling under this
advance ruling. Chapter may make an application in such form and manner and
accompanied by such fee, as may be prescribed, stating the question on
which the advance ruling is sought.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1287
(2) The question on which the advance ruling is sought under this
Act, shall be in respect of, -
(a) classification of any goods or services or both;
(b) applicability of a notification issued under the provisions of
this Act;
(c) determination of time and value of supply of goods or
services or both;
(d) admissibility of input tax credit of tax paid or deemed to have
been paid;
(e) determination of the liability to pay tax on any goods or
services or both;
(f) whether applicant is required to be registered;
(g) whether any particular thing done by the applicant with
respect to any goods or services or both amounts to or results
in a supply of goods or services or both, within the meaning
of that term.
98. (1) On receipt of an application, the Authority shall cause a copy Procedure on
thereof to be forwarded to the concerned officer and, if necessary, call receipt of
application.
upon him to furnish the relevant records:
Provided that where any records have been called for by the
Authority in any case, such records shall, as soon as possible, be returned
to the said concerned officer.
(2) The Authority may, after examining the application and the
records called for and after hearing the applicant or his authorised
representative and the concerned officer or his authorised representative,
by order, either admit or reject the application:
Provided that the Authority shall not admit the application
where the question raised in the application is already pending or decided
in any proceedings in the case of an applicant under any of the provisions
of this Act:
Provided further that no application shall be rejected under this
sub-section unless an opportunity of hearing has been given to the
applicant:
Provided also that where the application is rejected, the reasons
for such rejection shall be specified in the order.
(3) A copy of every order made under sub-section (2) shall be sent
to the applicant and to the concerned officer.

1288 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(4) Where an application is admitted under sub-section (2), the
Authority shall, after examining such further material as may be placed
before it by the applicant or obtained by the Authority and after providing
an opportunity of being heard to the applicant or his authorised
representative as well as to the concerned officer or his authorised
representative, pronounce its advance ruling on the question specified in
the application.
(5) Where the members of the Authority differ on any question on
which the advance ruling is sought, they shall state the point or points on
which they differ and make a reference to the Appellate Authority for
hearing and decision on such question.
(6) The Authority shall pronounce its advance ruling in writing
within ninety days from the date of receipt of application.
(7) A copy of the advance ruling pronounced by the Authority duly
signed by the members and certified in such manner as may be prescribed
shall be sent to the applicant, the concerned officer and the jurisdictional
officer after such pronouncement.
Constitution of 99. The Government shall, by notification, constitute an Authority to be
Appellate Authority
for Advance Ruling. known as Haryana Appellate Authority for Advance Ruling for Goods and
Services Tax for hearing appeals against the advance ruling pronounced
by the Advance Ruling Authority consisting of:
(i) the Chief Commissioner of central tax as designated by the
Board; and
(ii) the Commissioner of State tax.
Provided that the Government may, on the recommendations of
the Council, notify any Appellate Authority located in another State or
Union territory to act as the Appellate Authority for the State.
Appeal to the 100. (1) The concerned officer, the jurisdictional officer or an applicant
Appellate
Authority. aggrieved by any advance ruling pronounced under sub-section (4) of
section 98, may appeal to the Appellate Authority.
(2) Every appeal under this section shall be filed within a period of
thirty days from the date on which the ruling sought to be appealed against
is communicated to the concerned officer, the jurisdictional officer and the
applicant:
Provided that the Appellate Authority may, if it is satisfied that
the appellant was prevented by a sufficient cause from presenting the
appeal within the said period of thirty days, allow it to be presented within
a further period not exceeding thirty days.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1289
(3) Every appeal under this section shall be in such form,
accompanied by such fee and verified in such manner, as may be
prescribed.
101. (1) The Appellate Authority may, after giving the parties to the appeal Orders of Appellate
or reference an opportunity of being heard, pass such order as it thinks fit, Authority.
confirming or modifying the ruling appealed against or referred to.
(2) The order referred to in sub-section (1) shall be passed within a
period of ninety days from the date of filing of the appeal under section 100
or a reference under sub-section (5) of section 98.
(3) Where the members of the Appellate Authority differ on any point
or points referred to in appeal or reference, it shall be deemed that no advance
ruling can be issued in respect of the question under the appeal or reference.
(4) A copy of the advance ruling pronounced by the Appellate
Authority duly signed by the Members and certified in such manner, as may
be prescribed shall be sent to the applicant, the concerned officer, the
jurisdictional officer and to the Authority after such pronouncement.
102. The Authority or the Appellate Authority may amend any order passed Rectification of
by it under section 98 or section 101, so as to rectify any error apparent on the advance ruling.
face of the record, if such error is noticed by the Authority or the Appellate
Authority on its own accord, or is brought to its notice by the concerned
officer, the jurisdictional officer, or the applicant or the appellant within a
period of six months from the date of the order:
Provided that no rectification which has the effect of enhancing the tax
liability or reducing the amount of admissible input tax credit shall be made
unless the applicant or the appellant has been given an opportunity of being
heard.
103. (1) The advance ruling pronounced by the Authority or the Appellate Applicability of
Authority under this Chapter shall be binding only - advance ruling.
(a) on the applicant who had sought it in respect of any matter
referred to in sub-section (2) of section 97 for advance
ruling;
(b) on the concerned officer or the jurisdictional officer in
respect of the applicant.
(2) The advance ruling referred to in sub-section (1) shall be binding
unless the law, facts or circumstances supporting the original advance ruling
have changed.

1290 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
Advance ruling to 104. (1) Where the Authority or the Appellate Authority finds that advance
be void in cer tain ruling pronounced by it under sub-section (4) of section 98 or under sub- circumstances.
section (1) of section 101has been obtained by the applicant or the appellant
by fraud or suppression of material facts or misrepresentation of facts, it may,
by order, declare such ruling to be void ab-initio and thereupon all the
provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder shall apply to the applicant
or the appellant as if such advance ruling had never been made:
Provided that no order shall be passed under this sub-section unless
an opportunity of being heard has been given to the applicant or the appellant.
Explanation. — The period beginning with the date of such
advance ruling and ending with the date of order
under this sub-section shall be excluded while
computing the period specified in sub-sections
(2) and (10) of section 73 or sub-sections (2) and
(10) of section 74.
(2) A copy of the order made under sub-section (1) shall be sent to the
applicant, the concerned officer and the jurisdictional officer.
Powers of Authority 105. (1) The Authority or the Appellate Authority shall, for the purpose of
and Appellate exercising its powers regarding – Authority.
(a) discovery and inspection;
(b) enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on
oath;
(c) issuing commissions and compelling production of books of
account and other records,
have all the powers of a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(Central Act 5 of 1908).
(2) The Authority or the Appellate Authority shall be deemed to be a
civil court for the purposes of section 195, but not for the purposes of Chapter
XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974), and
every proceeding before the Authority or the Appellate Authority shall be
deemed to be a judicial proceedings within the meaning of sections 193 and
228, and for the purpose of section 196 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act
45 of 1860).
Procedure of 106. The Authority or the Appellate Authority shall, subject to the provisions
Authorit y and of this Chapter, have power to regulate its own procedure. Appellate
Authority.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1291
CHAPTER – XVIII
APPEALS AND REVISION
107. (1) Any person aggrieved by any decision or order passed under this Appeals to
Act or the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of 2017) Appellate
Authority.
by an adjudicating authority may appeal to such Appellate Authority, as may
be prescribed within three months from the date on which the said decision or
order is communicated to such person.
(2) The Commissioner may, on his own motion, or upon request from
the Commissioner of central tax, call for and examine the record of any
proceeding in which an adjudicating authority has passed any decision or order
under this Act or the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act
12 of 2017) for the purpose of satisfying himself as to the legality or propriety
of the said decision or order and may, by order, direct any officer subordinate
to him to apply to the Appellate Authority within six months from the date of
communication of the said decision or order for the determination of such
points arising out of the said decision or order as may be specified by the
Commissioner in his order.
(3) Where, in pursuance of an order under sub-section (2), the
authorised officer makes an application to the Appellate Authority, such
application shall be dealt with by the Appellate Authority as if it were an
appeal made against the decision or order of the adjudicating authority and
such authorised officer were an appellant and the provisions of this Act
relating to appeals shall apply to such application.
(4) The Appellate Authority may, if he is satisfied that the appellant
was prevented by sufficient cause from presenting the appeal within the
aforesaid period of three months or six months, as the case may be, allow it to
be presented within a further period of one month.
(5) Every appeal under this section shall be in such form and shall be
verified in such manner, as may be prescribed.
(6) No appeal shall be filed under sub-section (1), unless the appellant
has paid –
(a) in full, such part of the amount of tax, interest, fine, fee and
penalty arising from the impugned order, as is admitted by
him; and
(b) a sum equal to ten percent of the remaining amount of tax in
dispute arising from the said order, in relation to which the
appeal has been filed.
(7) Where the appellant has paid the amount under sub-section (6), the
recovery proceedings for the balance amount shall be deemed to be stayed.
(8) The Appellate Authority shall give an opportunity to the appellant
of being heard.

1292 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(9) The Appellate Authority may, if sufficient cause is shown at any
stage of hearing of an appeal, grant time to the parties or any of them and adjourn
the hearing of the appeal for reasons to be recorded in writing:
Provided that no such adjournment shall be granted more than three
times to a party during hearing of the appeal.
(10) The Appellate Authority may, at the time of hearing of an appeal,
allow an appellant to add any ground of appeal not specified in the grounds of
appeal, if it is satisfied that the omission of that ground from the grounds of
appeal was not wilful or unreasonable.
(11) The Appellate Authority shall, after making such further inquiry as
may be necessary, pass such order, as it thinks just and proper, confirming,
modifying or annulling the decision or order appealed against but shall not refer
the case back to the adjudicating authority that passed the said decision or order:
Provided that an order enhancing any fee or penalty or fine in lieu of
confiscation or confiscating goods of greater value or reducing the amount of
refund or input tax credit shall not be passed unless the appellant has been given
a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the proposed order:
Provided further that where the Appellate Authority is of the opinion
that any tax has not been paid or short-paid or erroneously refunded, or where
input tax credit has been wrongly availed or utilised, no order requiring the
appellant to pay such tax or input tax credit shall be passed unless the appellant
is given notice to show cause against the proposed order and the order is passed
within the time limit specified under section 73 or section 74.
(12) The order of the Appellate Authority disposing of the appeal shall be
in writing and shall state the points for determination, the decision thereon and
the reasons for such decision.
(13) The Appellate Authority shall, where it is possible to do so, hear and
decide every appeal within a period of one year from the date on which it is
filed:
Provided that where the issuance of order is stayed by an order of a
court or Tribunal, the period of such stay shall be excluded in computing the
period of one year.
(14) On disposal of the appeal, the Appellate Authority shall communicate
the order passed by it to the appellant, respondent and to the adjudicating
authority.
(15) A copy of the order passed by the Appellate Authority shall also be
sent to the Commissioner or the authority designated by him in this behalf and
the jurisdictional Commissioner of central tax or an authority designated by him
in this behalf.
(16) Every order passed under this section shall, subject to the provisions
of section 108 or section 113 or section 117 or section 118 be final and binding
on the parties.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1293
108. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 121 and any rules made Powers of
thereunder, the Revisional Authority may, on his own motion, or upon Revi sional
information received by him or on request from the Commissioner of central Authority.
tax, call for and examine the record of any proceedings, and if he considers
that any decision or order passed under this Act or under the Central Goods
and Services Tax Act by any officer subordinate to him is erroneous in so far
as it is prejudicial to the interest of revenue and is illegal or improper or has
not taken into account certain material facts, whether available at the time of
issuance of the said order or not or in consequence of an observation by the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India, he may, if necessary, stay the
operation of such decision or order for such period as he deems fit and after
giving the person concerned an opportunity of being heard and after making
such further inquiry as may be necessary, pass such order, as he thinks just
and proper, including enhancing or modifying or annulling the said decision
or order.
(2) The Revisional Authority shall not exercise any power under
sub-section (1), if-
(a) the order has been subject to an appeal under section 107 or
section 112 or section 117 or section 118; or
(b) the period specified under sub-section (2) of section 107 has
not yet expired or more than three years have expired after
the passing of the decision or order sought to be revised; or
(c) the order has already been taken for revision under this
section at an earlier stage; or
(d) the order has been passed in exercise of the powers under
sub-section (1):
Provided that the Revisional Authority may pass an order under
sub-section (1) on any point which has not been raised and decided in an
appeal referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (2), before the expiry of a period
of one year from the date of the order in such appeal or before the expiry of a
period of three years referred to in clause (b) of that sub-section, whichever is
later.
(3) Every order passed in revision under sub-section (1) shall, subject
to the provisions of section 113 or section 117 or section 118, be final and
binding on the parties.
(4) If the said decision or order involves an issue on which the
Appellate Tribunal or the High Court has given its decision in some other
proceedings and an appeal to the High Court or the Supreme Court against
such decision of the Appellate Tribunal or the High Court is pending, the
period spent between the date of the decision of the Appellate Tribunal and
the date of the decision of the High Court or the date of the decision of the
High Court and the date of the decision of the Supreme Court shall be
excluded in computing the period of limitation referred to in clause (b) of sub-
section (2) where proceedings for revision have been initiated by way of issue
of a notice under this section.

1294 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(5) Where the issuance of an order under sub-section (1) is stayed by
the order of a court or Appellate Tribunal, the period of such stay shall be
excluded in computing the period of limitation referred to in clause (b) of sub-
section (2).
(6) For the purposes of this section, the term,-
(i) “record” shall include all records relating to any proceedings
under this Act available at the time of examination by the
Revisional Authority;
(ii) “decision” shall include intimation given by any officer
lower in rank than the Revisional Authority.
Appellate Tribunal 109. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, the Goods and Services
and Benches
thereof. Tax Tribunal constituted under the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017
(Central Act 12 of 2017) shall be the Appellate Tribunal for hearing appeals
against the orders passed by the Appellate Authority or the Revisional
Authority under this Act.
(2) The constitution and jurisdiction of the State Bench and the Area
Benches located in the State shall be in accordance with the provisions of
section 109 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12
of 2017) or the rules made thereunder.
President and 110. The qualifications, appointment, salary and allowances, terms of office,
Members of
Appellate Tribunal, resignation and removal of the President and Members of the State Bench and
their qualification, Area Benches shall be in accordance with the provisions of section 110 of the
appointment, Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of 2017).
con ditions of
service, etc.
Procedure before 111. (1) The Appellate Tribunal shall not, while disposing of any
Appellate Tribunal. proceedings before it or an appeal before it, be bound by the procedure laid
down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908), but shall
be guided by the principles of natural justice and subject to the other
provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder, the Appellate Tribunal
shall have power to regulate its own procedure.
(2) The Appellate Tribunal shall, for the purposes of discharging its
functions under this Act, have the same powers as are vested in a civil court
under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908), while trying
a suit in respect of the following matters, namely:-
(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and
examining him on oath;
(b) requiring the discovery and production of documents;
(c) receiving evidence on affidavits;
(d) subject to the provisions of sections 123 and 124 of the Indian
Evidence Act, 1872 (Central Act 1 of 1872), requisitioning
any public record or document or a copy of such record or
document from any office;

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1295
(e) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or
documents;
(f) dismissing a representation for default or deciding it ex parte;
(g) setting aside any order of dismissal of any representation for
default or any order passed by it ex parte; and
(h) any other matter which may be prescribed.
(3) Any order made by the Appellate Tribunal may be enforced by it
in the same manner as if it were a decree made by a court in a suit pending
therein, and it shall be lawful for the Appellate Tribunal to send for execution
of its orders to the court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction,-
(a) in the case of an order against a company, the registered
office of the company is situated; or
(b) in the case of an order against any other person, the person
concerned voluntarily resides or carries on business or
personally works for gain.
(4) All proceedings before the Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed to
be judicial proceedings within the meaning of sections 193 and 228, and for
the purposes of section 196 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act 45 of 1860),
and the Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed to be civil court for the purposes
of section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(Central Act 2 of 1974).
112. (1) Any person aggrieved by an order passed against him under Appeals to
Appellate Tribunal.
section 107 or section 108 of this Act or the Central Goods and Services Tax
Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of 2017) may appeal to the Appellate Tribunal
against such order within three months from the date on which the order
sought to be appealed against is communicated to the person preferring the
appeal.
(2) The Appellate Tribunal may, in its discretion, refuse to admit any
such appeal where the tax or input tax credit involved or the difference in tax
or input tax credit involved or the amount of fine, fee or penalty determined
by such order, does not exceed fifty thousand rupees.
(3) The Commissioner may, on his own motion, or upon request from
the Commissioner of central tax, call for and examine the record of any order
passed by the Appellate Authority or the Revisional Authority under this Act
or under the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of
2017) for the purpose of satisfying himself as to the legality or propriety of
the said order and may, by order, direct any officer subordinate to him to apply
to the Appellate Tribunal within six months from the date on which the said
order has been passed for determination of such points arising out of the said
order as may be specified by the Commissioner in his order.

1296 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(4) Where in pursuance of an order under sub-section (3) the
authorised officer makes an application to the Appellate Tribunal, such
application shall be dealt with by the Appellate Tribunal as if it were an appeal
made against the order under sub-section (11) of section 107 or under sub-
section (1) of section 108 and the provisions of this Act shall apply
to such application, as they apply in relation to appeals filed under
sub-section (1).
(5) On receipt of notice that an appeal has been preferred under this
section, the party against whom the appeal has been preferred may,
notwithstanding that he may not have appealed against such order or any part
thereof, file, within forty five days of the receipt of notice, a memorandum of
cross-objections, verified in the prescribed manner, against any part of the
order appealed against and such memorandum shall be disposed of by the
Appellate Tribunal, as if it were an appeal presented within the time specified
in sub-section (1).
(6) The Appellate Tribunal may admit an appeal within three months
after the expiry of the period referred to in sub-section (1), or permit the filing
of a memorandum of cross-objections within forty five days after the expiry
of the period referred to in sub-section (5), if it is satisfied that there was
sufficient cause for not presenting it within that period.
(7) An appeal to the Appellate Tribunal shall be in such form, verified
in such manner and shall be accompanied by such fee, as may be prescribed.
(8) No appeal shall be filed under sub-section (1), unless the appellant
has paid ––
(a) in full, such part of the amount of tax, interest, fine, fee and
penalty arising from the impugned order, as is admitted by
him; and
(b) a sum equal to twenty percent of the remaining amount of tax
in dispute, in addition to the amount paid under sub-section
(6) of the section 107, arising from the said order, in relation
to which the appeal has been filed.
(9) Where the appellant has paid the amount as per sub-
section (8), the recovery proceedings for the balance amount shall be deemed
to be stayed till the disposal of the appeal.
(10) Every application made before the Appellate Tribunal, —
(a) in an appeal for rectification of error or for any other purpose;
or
(b) for restoration of an appeal or an application,
shall be accompanied by such fees, as may be prescribed.
Orders of Appellate 113. (1) The Appellate Tribunal may, after giving the parties to the appeal
Tribunal.
an opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit,
confirming, modifying or annulling the decision or order appealed against

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1297
or may refer the case back to the Appellate Authority, or the Revisional
Authority or to the original adjudicating authority, with such directions as it
may think fit, for a fresh adjudication or decision after taking additional
evidence, if necessary.
(2) The Appellate Tribunal may, if sufficient cause is shown, at any
stage of hearing of an appeal, grant time to the parties or any of them and
adjourn the hearing of the appeal for reasons to be recorded in writing:
Provided that no such adjournment shall be granted more than three
times to a party during hearing of the appeal.
(3) The Appellate Tribunal may amend any order passed by it under
sub-section (1) so as to rectify any error apparent on the face of the record, if
such error is noticed by it on its own accord, or is brought to its notice by the
Commissioner or the Commissioner of central tax or the other party to the
appeal within a period of three months from the date of the order:
Provided that no amendment which has the effect of enhancing an
assessment or reducing a refund or input tax credit or otherwise increasing the
liability of the other party, shall be made under this sub-section, unless the
party has been given an opportunity of being heard.
(4) The Appellate Tribunal shall, as far as possible, hear and decide
every appeal within a period of one year from the date on which it is filed.
(5) The Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of every order passed
under this section to the Appellate Authority or the Revisional Authority, or
the original adjudicating authority, as the case may be, the appellant and the
Commissioner or the jurisdictional Commissioner of central tax.
(6) Save as provided in section 117 or section 118, orders passed by
the Appellate Tribunal on an appeal shall be final and binding on the parties.
114. The State President shall exercise such financial and administrative Financial and
administrative powers over the State Bench and Area Benches of the Appellate Tribunal in a powers of State
State, as may be prescribed: President.
Provided that the State President shall have the authority to delegate such
of his financial and administrative powers as he may think fit to any other
Member or any officer of the State Bench or Area Benches, subject to the
condition that such Member or officer shall, while exercising such delegated
powers, continue to act under the direction, control and supervision of the
State President.
115. Where an amount paid by the appellant under sub-section (6) of section Interest on refund of
amount paid for
107 or sub-section (8) of section 112 is required to be refunded consequent to admission of
any order of the Appellate Authority or of the Appellate Tribunal, interest at appeal.
the rate specified under section 56 shall be payable in respect of such refund
from the date of payment of the amount till the date of refund of such amount.

1298 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
Appearance by 116. (1) Any person who is entitled or required to appear before an officer
authorised appointed under this Act, or the Appellate Authority or the Appellate Tribunal
representative.
in connection with any proceedings under this Act, may, otherwise than when
required under this Act to appear personally for examination on oath or
affirmation, subject to the other provisions of this section, appear by an
authorised representative.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, the expression “authorised
representative” shall mean a person authorised by the person referred to in
sub-section (1) to appear on his behalf, being —
(a) his relative or regular employee; or
(b) an advocate who is entitled to practice in any court in India,
and who has not been debarred from practicing before any
court in India; or
(c) any chartered accountant, a cost accountant or a company
secretary, who holds a certificate of practice and who has not
been debarred from practice; or
(d) a retired officer of the Commercial Tax Department of any
State Government or Union territory or of the Board who,
during his service under the Government, had worked in a
post not below the rank than that of a Group-B Gazetted
officer for a period of not less than two years:
Provided that such officer shall not be entitled to appear before
any proceedings under this Act for a period of one year from the date of his
retirement or resignation; or
(e) any person who has been authorised to act as a goods and
services tax practitioner on behalf of the concerned registered
person.
(3) No person,-
(a) who has been dismissed or removed from Government
service; or
(b) who is convicted of an offence connected with any
proceedings under this Act, the Central Goods and Services
Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of 2017) the Integrated Goods
and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 13 of 2017) or the
Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central
Act 14 of 2017) or under the existing law or under any of the
Acts passed by a State Legislature dealing with the imposition
of taxes on sale of goods or supply of goods or services or
both; or
(c) who is found guilty of misconduct by the prescribed
authority;

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1299
(d) who has been adjudged as an insolvent,
shall be qualified to represent any person under sub-section (1) ––
(i) for all times in case of persons referred to in clauses (a),
(b) and (c); and
(ii) for the period during which the insolvency continues in
the case of a person referred to in clause (d).
(4) Any person who has been disqualified under the provisions of the
Central Goods and Services Tax Act or the Goods and Services Tax Act of
any other State or the Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Act shall be
deemed to be disqualified under this Act.
117. (1) Any person aggrieved by any order passed by the State Bench or Appeal to High
Area Benches of the Appellate Tribunal may file an appeal to the High Court Court.
and the High Court may admit such appeal, if it is satisfied that the case
involves a substantial question of law.
(2) An appeal under sub-section (1) shall be filed within a period of
one hundred and eighty days from the date on which the order appealed against
is received by the aggrieved person and it shall be in such form, verified in
such manner as may be prescribed:
Provided that the High Court may entertain an appeal after the
expiry of the said period if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not
filing it within such period.
(3) Where the High Court is satisfied that a substantial question of law
is involved in any case, it shall formulate that question and the appeal shall be
heard only on the question so formulated, and the respondents shall, at the
hearing of the appeal, be allowed to argue that the case does not involve such
question:
Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed to take
away or abridge the power of the court to hear, for reasons to be recorded, the
appeal on any other substantial question of law not formulated by it, if it is
satisfied that the case involves such question.
(4) The High Court shall decide the question of law so formulated and
deliver such judgment thereon containing the grounds on which such decision
is founded and may award such cost as it deems fit.
(5) The High Court may determine any issue which-
(a) has not been determined by the State Bench or Area Benches;
or
(b) has been wrongly determined by the State Bench or Area
Benches, by reason of a decision on such question of law as
herein referred to in sub-section (3).
(6) Where an appeal has been filed before the High Court, it shall be
heard by a Bench of not less than two Judges of the High Court, and shall be
decided in accordance with the opinion of such Judges or of the majority, if
any, of such Judges.

1300 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(7) Where there is no such majority, the Judges shall state the point of
law upon which they differ and the case shall, then, be heard upon that point
only, by one or more of the other Judges of the High Court and such point
shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority of the Judges who
have heard the case including those who first heard it.
(8) Where the High Court delivers a judgment in an appeal filed before
it under this section, effect shall be given to such judgment by either side on
the basis of a certified copy of the judgment.
(9) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of the Code
of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908), relating to appeals to the
High Court shall, as far as may be, apply in the case of appeals under this
section.
Appeal to Supreme 118. (1) An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court-
Court.
(a) from any order passed by the National Bench or Regional
Benches of the Appellate Tribunal; or
(b) from any judgment or order passed by the High Court in an
appeal made under section 117 in any case which, on its own
motion or on an application made by or on behalf of the party
aggrieved, immediately after passing of the judgment or
order, the High Court certifies to be a fit one for appeal to the
Supreme Court.
(2) The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act
5 of 1908), relating to appeals to the Supreme Court shall, so far as may be,
apply in the case of appeals under this section as they apply in the case of
appeals from decrees of a High Court.
(3) Where the judgment of the High Court is varied or reversed in the
appeal, effect shall be given to the order of the Supreme Court in the manner
provided in section 117 in the case of a judgment of the High Court.
Sums due to be paid 119. Notwithstanding that an appeal has been preferred to the High Court or
notwithstanding
appeal etc. the Supreme Court, sums due to the Government as a result of an order passed
by the National or Regional Benches of the Appellate Tribunal under sub-
section (1) of section 113 or an order passed by the State Bench or Area
Benches of the Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (1) of section 113 or an
order passed by the High Court under section 117, as the case may be, shall
be payable in accordance with the order so passed.
Appeal not to be 120. (1) The Commissioner may, on the recommendations of the Council,
filed in certain
cases. from time to time, issue orders or instructions or directions fixing such
monetary limits, as he may deem fit, for the purposes of regulating the filing
of appeal or application by the officer of the State tax under the provisions of
this Chapter.
(2) Where, in pursuance of the orders or instructions or directions
issued under sub-section (1), the officer of the State tax has not
filed an appeal or application against any decision or order passed under the

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1301
provisions of this Act, it shall not preclude such officer of the State tax from
filing appeal or application in any other case involving the same or similar
issues or questions of law.
(3) Notwithstanding the fact that no appeal or application has been
filed by the officer of the State tax pursuant to the orders or instructions or
directions issued under sub-section (1), no person, being a party in appeal or
application shall contend that the officer of the State tax has acquiesced in the
decision on the disputed issue by not filing an appeal or application.
(4) The Appellate Tribunal or court hearing such appeal or application
shall have regard to the circumstances under which appeal or application was
not filed by the officer of the State tax in pursuance of the orders or
instructions or directions issued under sub-section (1).
121. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any provisions of this Act, Non appealable
no appeal shall lie against any decision taken or order passed by an officer of decisions and
orders.
State tax if such decision taken or order passed relates to any one or more of
the following matters, namely: –
(a) an order of the Commissioner or other authority empowered to
direct transfer of proceedings from one officer to another officer;
or
(b) an order pertaining to the seizure or retention of books of account,
register and other documents; or
(c) an order sanctioning prosecution under this Act; or
(d) an order passed under section 80.
CHAPTER XIX
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
122. (1) Where a taxable person who –– Penalty for certain
offences.
(i) supplies any goods or services or both without issue of any
invoice or issues an incorrect or false invoice with regard to
any such supply;
(ii) issues any invoice or bill without supply of goods or services
or both in violation of the provisions of this Act or the rules
made thereunder;
(iii) collects any amount as tax but fails to pay the same to the
Government beyond a period of three months from the date
on which such payment becomes due;
(iv) collects any tax in contravention of the provisions of this Act
but fails to pay the same to the Government beyond a period
of three months from the date on which such payment
becomes due;
(v) fails to deduct the tax in accordance with the provisions
of sub-section (1) of section 51, or deducts an amount

1302 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
which is less than the amount required to be deducted
under the said sub-section, or where he fails to pay to the
Government under sub-section (2) thereof, the amount
deducted as tax;
(vi) fails to collect tax in accordance with the provisions of
sub-section (1) of section 52, or collects an amount
which is less than the amount required to be collected
under the said sub-section or where he fails to pay to
the Government the amount collected as tax under sub-
section (3) of section 52;
(vii) takes or utilises input tax credit without actual receipt
of goods or services or both either fully or partially, in
contravention of the provisions of this Act or the rules
made thereunder;
(viii) fraudulently obtains refund of tax under this Act;
(ix) takes or distributes input tax credit in contravention of
section 20, or the rules made thereunder;
(x) falsifies or substitutes financial records or produces
fake accounts or documents or furnishes any false
information or return with an intention to evade
payment of tax due under this Act;
(xi) is liable to be registered under this Act but fails to
obtain registration;
(xii) furnishes any false information with regard to
registration particulars, either at the time of applying
for registration, or subsequently;
(xiii) obstructs or prevents any officer in discharge of his
duties under this Act;
(xiv) transports any taxable goods without the cover of
documents as may be specified in this behalf;
(xv) suppresses his turnover leading to evasion of tax under
this Act;
(xvi) fails to keep, maintain or retain books of account and
other documents in accordance with the provisions of
this Act or the rules made thereunder;
(xvii) fails to furnish information or documents called for by
an officer in accordance with the provisions of this Act
or the rules made thereunder or furnishes false
information or documents during any proceedings
under this Act;
(xviii) supplies, transports or stores any goods which he has
reasons to believe are liable to confiscation under this
Act;
(xix) issues any invoice or document by using the
registration number of another registered person;

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1303
(xx) tampers with, or destroys any material evidence or
documents;
(xxi) disposes off or tampers with any goods that have been
detained, seized, or attached under this Act,
he shall be liable to pay a penalty of ten thousand rupees or an amount
equivalent to the tax evaded or the tax not deducted under section 51 or short
deducted or deducted but not paid to the Government or tax not collected
under section 52 or short collected or collected but not paid to the Government
or input tax credit availed of or passed on or distributed irregularly, or the
refund claimed fraudulently, whichever is higher.
(2) Any registered person who supplies any goods or services or both
on which any tax has not been paid or short - paid or erroneously refunded, or
where the input tax credit has been wrongly availed or utilized, -
(a) for any reason, other than the reason of fraud or any wilful
misstatement or suppression of facts to evade tax, shall be
liable to a penalty of ten thousand rupees or ten percent of the
tax due from such person, whichever is higher;
(b) for reason of fraud or any wilful misstatement or suppression
of facts to evade tax, shall be liable to a penalty equal to ten
thousand rupees or the tax due from such person, whichever
is higher.
(3) Any person who ––
(a) aids or abets any of the offences specified in clauses (i) to
(xxi) of sub-section (1);
(b) acquires possession of, or in any way concerns himself in
transporting, removing, depositing, keeping, concealing,
supplying, or purchasing or in any other manner deals with
any goods which he knows or has reasons to believe are liable
to confiscation under this Act or the rules made thereunder;
(c) receives or is in any way concerned with the supply of, or in
any other manner deals with any supply of services which he
knows or has reasons to believe are in contravention of any
provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder;
(d) fails to appear before the officer of State tax, when issued
with a summon for appearance to give evidence or produce a
document in an inquiry;
(e) fails to issue invoice in accordance with the provisions of this
Act or the rules made thereunder or fails to account for an
invoice in his books of account,
shall be liable to a penalty which may extend to twenty five thousand rupees.

1304 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
Penalty for failure 123. If a person who is required to furnish an information return under section
to furnish
information return. 150 fails to do so within the period specified in the notice issued under sub-
section (3) thereof, the proper officer may direct, that such person shall be
liable to pay a penalty of one hundred rupees for each day of the period during
which the failure to furnish such return continues:
Provided that the penalty imposed under this section shall not exceed five
thousand rupees.
Fine for failure to 124. If any person required to furnish any information or return under section
furnish statistics. 151,-
(a) without reasonable cause fails to furnish such information or return
as may be required under that section, or
(b) wilfully furnishes or causes to furnish any information or return
which he knows to be false,
he shall be punishable with a fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees
and in case of a continuing offence to a further fine which may extend to one
hundred rupees for each day after the first day during which the offence
continues subject to a maximum limit of twenty five thousand rupees.
General penalty. 125. Any person, who contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or any
rules made thereunder for which no penalty is separately provided for in this
Act, shall be liable to a penalty which may extend to twenty five thousand
rupees.
General disciplines 126. (1) No officer under this Act shall impose any penalty for minor
related to penalty. breaches of tax regulations or procedural requirements and in particular, any
omission or mistake in documentation which is easily rectifiable and made
without fraudulent intent or gross negligence.
Explanation. — For the purpose of this sub-section, –
(a) a breach shall be considered a ‘minor
breach’ if the amount of tax involved is less
than five thousand rupees;
(b) an omission or mistake in documentation
shall be considered to be easily rectifiable
if the same is an error apparent on the face
of record.
(2) The penalty imposed under this Act shall depend on the facts and
circumstances of each case and shall commensurate with the degree and
severity of the breach.
(3) No penalty shall be imposed on any person without giving him an
opportunity of being heard.
(4) The officer under this Act shall while imposing penalty in an order
for a breach of any law, regulation or procedural requirement, specify the
nature of the breach and the applicable law, regulation or procedure under
which the amount of penalty for the breach has been specified.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1305
(5) When a person voluntarily discloses to an officer under this Act the
circumstances of a breach of the tax law, regulation or procedural requirement
prior to the discovery of the breach by the officer under this Act, the proper
officer may consider this fact as a mitigating factor when quantifying a penalty
for that person.
(6) The provisions of this section shall not apply in such cases where
the penalty specified under this Act is either a fixed sum or expressed as a
fixed percentage.
127. Where the proper officer is of the view that a person is liable to a penalty Power to impose
and the same is not covered under any proceedings under section 62 or section penalty in certain
63 or section 64 or section 73 or section 74 or section 129 or section 130, he cases.
may issue an order levying such penalty after giving a reasonable opportunity
of being heard to such person.
128. The Government may, by notification, waive in part or full, any penalty Power to waive
referred to in section 122 or section 123 or section 125 or any late fee referred penalty or fee or
to in section 47 for such class of taxpayers and under such mitigating both.
circumstances as may be specified therein on the recommendations of the
Council.
129. (1) Notwithstanding anything contain ed in this Act, where any person Detention, sei zure
transports any goods or stores any goods while they are in transit in and release of goods
contravention of the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder, all and conveyances in
transit.
such goods and conveyance used as a means of transport for carrying the sai d
goods and documents relating to such goods and conveyance shall be liable to
detention or seizure and after detention or seizure, shall be released, ––
(a) on payment of the applicable tax and penalty equal to one
hundred percent of the tax payable on such goods and, in
case of exempted goods, on payment of an amount equal to
two percent of the value of goods or twenty five thousand
rupees, whichever is less, where the owner of the goods
comes forward for payment of such tax and penalty;
(b) on payment of t he applicable tax and penalty equal to the
fifty percent of the value of the goods reduced by the tax
amount paid thereon and, in case of exempted goods, on
payment of an amount equal to five percent of the value of
goods or twenty five thousand rupees, wh ichever is less,
where the owner of the goods does not come forward for
payment of such tax and penalty;
(c) upon furnishing a security equivalent to the amount payable
under clause (a) or clause (b) in such form and manner as
may be prescribed:

1306 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
Provided that no such goods or conveyance shall be detained or
seized without serving an order of detention or seizure on the person
transporting the goods.
(2) The provisions of sub-section (6) of section 67 shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply for detention and seizure of goods and conveyances.
(3) The proper officer detaining or seizing goods or conveyances shall
issue a notice specifying the tax and penalty payable and thereafter, pass an
order for payment of tax and penalty under clause (a) or clause (b) or
clause (c).
(4) No tax, interest or penalty shall be determined under sub-section
(3) without giving the person concerned an opportunity of being heard.
(5) On payment of amount referred in sub-section (1), all proceedings
in respect of the notice specified in sub-section (3) shall be deemed to be
concluded.
(6) Where the person transporting any goods or the owner of the goods
fails to pay the amount of tax and penalty as provided in sub-section (1) within
seven days of such detention or seizure, further proceedings shall be initiated
in accordance with the provisions of section 130:
Provided that where the detained or seized goods are perishable or
hazardous in nature or are likely to depreciate in value with passage of time,
the said period of seven days may be reduced by the proper officer.
Confiscation of 130. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, if any person -
goods or
conveyances and (i) supplies or receives any goods in contravention of any of
levy of penalty. the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder with
intent to evade payment of tax; or
(ii) does not account for any goods on which he is liable to pay
tax under this Act; or
(iii) supplies any goods liable to tax under this Act without
having applied for registration; or
(iv) contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or the rules
made thereunder with intent to evade payment of tax; or
(v) uses any conveyance as a means of transport for carriage of
goods in contravention of the provisions of this Act or the
rules made thereunder unless the owner of the conveyance
proves that it was so used without the knowledge or
connivance of the owner himself, his agent, if any, and the
person in charge of the conveyance,
then, all such goods or conveyances shall be liable to confiscation and
the person shall b e liable to penalty under section 122.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1307
(2) Whenever confiscation of any goods or conveyance is authorised by this
Act, the officer adjudging it shall give to the owner of the goods an option to
pay in lieu of confiscation, such fine as the said officer t hinks fit:
Provided that such fine leviable shall not exceed the market value
of the goods confiscated, less the tax chargeable thereon:
Provided further that the aggregate of such fine and penalty
leviable shall not be less than the amount of penalty leviable under sub - section
(1) of section 129:
Provided further that where any such conveyance is used for the
carriage of the goods or passengers for hire, the owner of the conveyance shall
be given an option to pay in lieu of the confiscation of the conveyance a fine
equal to the tax payable on the goods being transported thereon.
(3) Where any fine in lieu of confiscation of goods or conveyance is
imposed under sub-section (2), the owner of such goods or conveyance or the
person referred to in sub-section (1), shall, in addition, be liable to any tax,
penalty and charges payable in respect of such goods or conveyance.
(4) No order for confiscation of goods or conveyance or for imposition
of penalty shall be issued without giving the person an opportunity of being
heard.
(5) Where any goods or conveyance are confiscated under this Act, the
title of such goods or conveyance shall thereupon vest in the Government.
(6) The proper officer adjudging confiscation shall take and hold
possession of the things confiscated and every officer of Police, on the
requisition of such proper officer, shall assist him in taking and holding such
possession.
(7) The proper officer may, after satisfying himself that the confiscated
goods or conveyance are not required in any other proceedings under this Act
and after giving reasonable time not exceeding three months to pay fine in lieu
of confiscation, dispose of such goods or conveyance and deposit the sale
proceeds thereof with the Government.
131. Without prejudice to the provisions contained in the Code of Criminal Confiscation or
Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974), no confiscation made or penalty penalty not to
interfere with other
imposed under the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder shall punishments.
prevent the infliction of any other p unishment to which the person affected
thereby is liable under the provisions of this Act or under any other law for
the time being in force.

1308 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
Punishment for 132. (1) Whoever commits any of the following offences, namely: –
certain offences.
(a) supplies any goods or services or both without issue of any
invoice, in violation of the provisions of this Act or the rules
made thereunder, with the intention to evade tax;
(b) issues any invoice or bill without supply of goods or services
or both in violation of the provisions of this Act, or the rules
made thereunder leading to wrongful availment or utilisation
of input tax credit or refund of tax;
(c) avails input tax credit using such invoice or bill referred to in
clause (b);
(d) collects any amount as tax but fails to pay the same to the
Government beyond a period of three months from the date on
which such payment becomes due;
(e) evades tax, fraudulently avails input tax credit o r fraudulently
obtains refund and where such offence is not covered under
clauses (a) to (d);
(f) falsifies or substitutes financial records or produces fake
accounts or documents or furnishes any false information with
an intention to evade payment of ta x due under this Act;
(g) obstructs or prevents any officer in the discharge of his duties
under this Act;
(h) acquires possession of, or in any way concerns himself in
transporting, removing, depositing, keeping, concealing,
supplying, purchasing or in any other manner deals with, any
goods which he knows or has reasons to believe are liable to
confiscation under this Act or the rules made thereunder;
(i) receives or is in any way concerned with the supply of, or in
any other manner deals with any s upply of services which he
knows or has reasons to believe are in contravention of any
provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder;
(j) tampers with or destroys any material evidence or documents;
(k) fails to supply any information which he is required to supply
under this Act or the rules made thereunder or (unless with a
reasonable belief, the burden of proving which shall be upon
him, that the information supplied by him is true) supplies false
information; or
(l) attempts to commit, or ab ets the commission of any of the
offences mentioned in clauses (a) to (k) of this section,

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1309
shall be punishable ––
(i) in cases where the amount of tax evaded or the amount of input
tax credit wrongly availed or utilised or the amount of refund
wrongly taken exceeds five hundred lakh rupees, with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and
with fine;
(ii) in cases where the amount of tax evaded or the amount of input
tax credit wrongly availed or utilised or the amount of refund
wrongly taken exceeds two hundred lakh rupees but does not
exceed five hundred lakh rupees, with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to three years and with fine;
(iii) in the case of any other offence where the amount of tax evaded
or the amount of input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised or
the amount of refund wrongly taken exceeds one hundred lakh
rupees but does not ex ceed two hundred lakh rupees, with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year and
with fine;
(iv) in cases where he commits or abets the commission of an
offence specified in clause (f) or clause (g) or clause (j), he
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to six months or with fine or with both.
(2) Where any person convicted of an offence under this section is
again convicted of an offence under this section, then, he shall be punishable
for the second and for ever y subsequent offence with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to five years and with fine.
(3) The imprisonment referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of sub -
section (1) and sub - section (2) shall, in the absence of special and adequate
reasons t o the contrary to be recorded in the judgment of the Court, be for a
term not less than six months.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974), all offences under this Act, except
the offences re ferred to in sub - section (5) shall be non - cognizable and
bailable.
(5) The offences specified in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) or
clause (d) of sub - section (1) and punishable under clause (i) of that sub - section
shall be cognizable and non - bailab le.
(6) A person shall not be prosecuted for any offence under this section
except with the previous sanction of the Commissioner.
Explanation. — For the purposes of this section, the term “tax”
shall include the amount of tax evaded or the
amount of input tax credit wrongly availed or
utilised or refund wrongly taken under the
provisions of this Act, the Central Goods and
Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 12 of 2017)
the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017

1310 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(Central Act 13 of 2017) and cess levied under the
Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States)
Act, 2017 (Central Act 14 of 2017) .
Liability of officers 133. (1) Where any person engaged in connection with the collection of
and certain other
persons. statistics under section 151 or compilation or computerisation thereof or
if any officer of State tax having access to information specified under
sub - section (1) of section 150, or if any per son engaged in connection with the
provision of service on the common portal or the agent of common portal,
wilfully discloses any information or the contents of any return furnished
under this Act or rules made thereunder otherwise than in execution of hi s
duties under the said sections or for the purposes of prosecution for an offence
under this Act or under any other Act for the time being in force, he shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or
with fine which may extend to twenty five thousand rupees, or with both.
(2) Any person –
(a) who is a Government servant shall not be prosecuted for any
offence under this section except with the previous sanction
of the Government;
(b) who is not a Government servant shall not be prosecuted for
any offence under this section except with the previous
sanction of the Commissioner.
Cognizance of 134. No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act
offences. or the rules made thereunder except with the previous sanction of the
Commissioner, and no court inferior to that of a Magistrate of the First Class,
shall try any such offence.
Presumption of 135. In any prosecution for an offence under this Act which requires a
culpable mental culpable mental state on the part of the accused, the court shall presume the
state. existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove
the fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an
offence in that prosecut ion.
Explanation. — For the purposes of this section, –
(i) the expression “culpable mental state” includes
intention, motive, knowledge of a fact, and belief
in, or reason to believe, a fact;
(ii) a fact is said to be proved only when the court
believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and
not merely when its existence is established by a
preponderance of probability.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1311
136. A statement made and signed by a person on appearance in response to Relevancy of
any summons issued under section 70 during the course of any in quiry or statements under
certain
proceedings under this Act shall be relevant, for the purpose of proving, in any circumstances.
prosecution for an offence under this Act, the truth of the facts which it
contains, ––
(a) when the person who made the statement is dead or cannot be
found, or is incapable of giving evidence, or is kept out of the way
by the adverse party, or whose presence cannot be obtained without
an amount of delay or expense which, under the circumstances of
the case, the court considers unreasonable; or
(b) when the person who made the statement is examined as a witness
in the case before the court and the court is of the opinion that,
having regard to the circumstances of the case, the statement should
be admitted in evidence in the interest of justice.
137. (1) Where an offence committed by a person under this Act is a Offences by
company, every person who, at the time the offence was committed was in Companies.
charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of business of
the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - section (1), where an
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any negligence on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, s ecretary or other
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to
be proceeded against and punished accordingly.
(3) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a taxable
person being a partnership firm or a Lim ited Liability Partnership or a Hindu
Undivided Family or a trust, the partner or karta or managing trustee shall be
deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly and the provisions of sub - section (2) shall mutatis
mutandis apply to such persons.
(4) Nothing contained in this section shall render any such person
liable to any punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.
Explanation. — For the purposes of this section, –
(i) “company” means a body corporate and
includes a firm or other association of
individuals; and
(ii) “director”, in relation to a firm, means a
partner in the firm.

1312 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
Compounding of 138. (1) Any offence under this Act may, either before or after the
offences. institution of prosecution, be compounded by the Commissioner on payment,
by the person accused of the offence, to the Central Government or the State
Government, as the case may be, of such compounding amount in such
manner, as may be prescribed:
Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply to –
(a) a person who has been allowed to compound once in respect
of any of the offences specified in clauses (a) to (f) of sub-
section (1) of section 132 and the offences specified in clause
(l) which are relatable to offences specified in clauses (a) to
(f) of the said sub-section;
(b) a person who has been allowed to compound once in respect
of any offence, other than those in clause (a), under this Act
or under the provisions of any State Goods and Services Tax
Act, or the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017
(Central Act 12 of 2017) or the Integrated Goods and
Services Tax Act, 2017 (Central Act 13 of 2017) in respect
of supplies of value exceeding one crore rupees;
(c) a person who has been accused of committing an offence
under this Act which is also an offence under any other law
for the time being in force;
(d) a person who has been convicted for an offence under this
Act by a court;
(e) a person who has been accused of committing an offence
specified in clause (g) or clause (j) or clause (k) of sub-
section (1) of section 132; and
(f) any other class of persons or offences as may be prescribed:
Provided further that any compounding allowed under the
provisions of this section shall not affect the proceedings, if any, instituted
under any other law:
Provided further that compounding shall be allowed only after
making payment of tax, interest and penalty involved in such offences.
(2) The amount for compounding of offences under this section shall
be such, as may be prescribed, subject to the minimum amount not being less
than ten thousand rupees or fifty percen t of the tax involved, whichever is
higher, and the maximum amount not being less than thirty thousand rupees
or one hundred and fifty percent of the tax, whichever is higher.
(3) On payment of such compounding amount, as may be determined
by the Commissi oner, no further proceedings shall be initiated under this Act
against the accused person in respect of the same offence and any criminal
proceedings, if already initiated in respect of the said offence, shall stand
abated.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1313
CHAPTER XX
TRANSITIONAL PROVISI ONS
139. (1) On and from the appointed day, every person registered under any Migration of
of the existing laws and having a valid Permanent Account Number shall be existing taxpayers.
issued a certificate of registration on provisional basis, subject to such
conditions and in such form and manner as may be prescribed, which unless
replaced by a final certificate of registration under sub - section (2), shall be
liable to be cancelled if the conditions so prescribed are not complied with.
(2) The final certificate of registration shall be granted in such form
and manner and subject to such conditions, as may be prescribed.
(3) The certificate of registration issued to a person under
sub - section (1) shall be deemed to have not been issued if the said registration
is cancelled in pursuance of an application filed by such person that he was
not liable to registration under section 22 or section 24.
140. (1) A registered person, other than a person opting to pay tax under Transitional
section 10, shall be entitled to take, in his electronic credit ledger, credit of the arrangements for
input tax credit.
amount of Value Added Tax, if any , carried forward in the return relating to
the period ending with the day immediately preceding the appointed day,
furnished by him under the existing la w in such manner, as may be prescribed:
Provided that the registered person shall not be allowed to take
credit in the following circumstances, namely: –
(i) where the said amount of credit is not admissible as input tax
credit under this Act; or
(ii) where he has not furnished all the returns required under the
existing law for the period of six months immediately
preceding the appointed date; or
(iii) where the said amount of credit relates to goods sold under
such exemption notification claiming refunds as are notified
by the State Government.
Provided further that so much of the said credit as is attributable to
any claim related to section 3, su b - section (3) of section 5, section 6, section
6A or sub - section (8) of section 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Central
Act 74 of 1956) which is not substantiated in the manner, and within the
period, prescribed in rule 12 of the Central Sales Tax (R egistration and
Turnover) Rules, 1957 shall not be eligible to be credited to the electronic
credit ledger:
Provided further that an amount equivalent to the credit specified
in the second proviso shall be refunded under the existing law when the said
cl aims are substantiated in the manner prescribed in rule 12 of the Central
Sales Tax (Registration and Turnover) Rules, 1957.

1314 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(2) A registered person, other than a person opting to pay tax under
section 10 , shall be entitled to take, in his electronic credit ledger, credit of
the unavailed input tax credit in respect of capital goods, not carried forward
in a return, furnished under the existing law by him, for the period ending
with the day immediately pre ceding the appointed day in such manner, as
may be prescribed:
Provided that the registered person shall not be allowed to take
credit unless the said credit was admissible as input tax credit under the
existing law and is also admissible as input tax cr edit under this Act.
Explanation. — For the purposes of this section, the expression
“unavailed input tax credit” means the amount
that remains after subtracting the amount of input
tax credit already availed in respect of capital
goods by the taxable person under the existing
law from the aggregate amount of input tax credit
to which the said person was entitled in respect
of the said capital goods under the existing law.
(3) A registered person, who was not liable to be registered under the
existing law or who was engaged in the sale of exempted goods or tax free
goods, by whatever name called, or goods which have suffered tax at the first
point of their sale in the State and the subsequent sales of which are not
subject to tax in the State under the existing law but which are liable to tax
under this Act or where the person was entitled to the credit of input tax at
the time of sale of goods, if any, shall be entitled to take, in his electronic
credit ledger, credit of the value added tax in respect o f inputs held in stock
and inputs contained in semi - finished or finished goods held in stock on the
appointed day subject to the following conditions namely: ––
(i) such inputs or goods are used or intended to be used for
making taxable supplies under this Act;
(ii) the said registered person is eligible for input tax credit on
such inputs under this Act;
(iii) the said registered person is in possession of invoice or other
prescribed documents evidencing payment of tax under the
existing law in respect of such inputs; and
(iv) such invoices or other prescribed documents were issued not
earlier than twelve months immediately preceding the
appointed day:
Provided that where a registered person, other than a
manufacturer or a supplier of services, is not in possession of an invoice or
any other documents evidencing payment of tax in respect of inputs, then,
such registered person shall, subject to such conditions, limitations and
safeguards, as may be prescribed, including that the said taxable person shall
pass on the benefit of such credit by way of reduced prices to the recipient,
be allowed to take credit at such rate and in such manner, as may be
prescribed.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1315
(4) A registered person, who was engaged in the sale of taxable goods
as well as exempted goods or tax free goods, by whatever name called, under
the existing law but which are liable to tax under this Act, shall be entitled to
take, in his electronic credit ledger, -
(a) the amount of credit of the value added tax, if any, carried
forward in a return furnished under the existing law by him in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1); and
(b) the amount of credit of the value added tax, if any, in respect of
inputs held in stock and inputs contained in semi-finished or
finished goods held in stock on the appointed day, relating to
such exempted goods or tax free goods, by whatever name
called, in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3).
(5) A registered person shall be entitled to take, in his electronic credit
ledger, credi t of value added tax, if any, in respect of inputs received on or
after the appointed day but the tax in respect of which has been paid by the
supplier under the existing law, subject to the condition that the invoice or any
other tax paying document of th e same was recorded in the books of account
of such person within a period of thirty days from the appointed day:
Provided that the period of thirty days may, on sufficient cause
being shown, be extended by the Commissioner for a further period not
exc eeding thirty days:
Provided further that the said registered person shall furnish a
statement, in such manner, as may be prescribed, in respect of credit that has
been taken under this sub - section.
(6) A registered person, who was either paying tax a t a fixed rate or
paying a fixed amount in lieu of the tax payable under the existing law shall
be entitled to take, in his electronic credit ledger, credit of value added tax in
respect of inputs held in stock and inputs contained in semi - finished or
fini shed goods held in stock on the appointed day subject to the following
conditions, namely: ––
(i) such inputs or goods are used or intended to be used for
making taxable supplies under this Act;
(ii) the said registered person is not paying tax under
section 10;
(iii) the said registered person is eligible for input tax credit on
such inputs under this Act;
(iv) the said registered person is in possession of invoice or other
prescribed documents evidencing payment of tax under the
existing law in respect of inputs; and
(v) such invoices or other prescribed documents were issued not
earlier than twelve months immediately preceding the
appointed day.

1316 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(7) The amount of credit under sub - sections (3), (4) and (6) shall be
calculated in such manner, as may be prescribed.
Transitional 141. (1) Where any inputs received at a place of business had been
provisions relating despatched as such or despatched after being partially processed to a job
to job work. worker for further processing, testing, repair, reconditioning or any other
purpose in accordance with the provisions of existing law prior to the
appointed day and such inputs are returned to the said place on or after
the appointed day, no tax shall be payable if such inputs, after
completion of the j ob work or otherwise, are returned to the said place
within six months from the appointed day:
Provided that the period of six months may, on sufficient cause
being shown, be extended by the Commissioner for a further period not
exceeding two months:
P rovided further that if such inputs are not returned within the
period specified in this sub - section, the input tax credit shall be liable to
be recovered in accordance with the provisions of clause (a) of sub -
section (8) of section 142.
(2) Where any sem i - finished goods had been despatched from the place
of business to any other premises for carrying out certain manufacturing
processes in accordance with the provisions of existing law prior to the
appointed day and such goods (hereafter in this sub - sectio n referred to as “the
said goods”) are returned to the said place on or after the appointed day, no
tax shall be payable if the said goods, after undergoing manufacturing
processes or otherwise, are returned to the said place within six months from
the app ointed day:
Provided that the period of six months may, on sufficient cause
being shown, be extended by the Commissioner for a further period not
exceeding two months:
Provided further that if the said goods are not returned within a
period specified in this sub - section, the input tax credit shall be liable to be
recovered in accordance with the provisions of clause (a) of sub - section (8) of
section 142:
Provided further that the person despatching the goods may, in
accordance with the provisions of the existing law, transfer the said goods to
the premises of any registered person for the purpose of supplying therefrom
on payment of tax in India or without payment of tax for exports within the
period specified in this sub - section.
(3) Where any goods had been despatched from the place of business
without payment of tax for carrying out tests or any other process, to any other
premises, whether registered or not, in accordance with the provisions of
existing law prior to the appointed day and such goods , are returned to the said
place of business on or after the appointed day, no tax shall be payable if the
said goods, after undergoing tests or any other process, are returned to such
place within six months from the appointed day:

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1317
Provided that the p eriod of six months may, on sufficient cause
being shown, be extended by the Commissioner for a further period not
exceeding two months:
Provided further that if the said goods are not returned within
the period specified in this sub - section, the input tax credit shall be liable
to be recovered in accordance with the provisions of clause (a) of sub -
section (8) of section 142:
Provided further that the person despatching the goods may,
in accordance with the provisions of the existing law, transfer the said
goods from the said other premises on payment of tax in India or without
payment of tax for exports within the period specified in this sub - section.
(4) The tax under sub - sections (1), (2) and (3) shall not be payable,
only if the person despatchin g the goods and the job worker declare the details
of the inputs or goods held in stock by the job worker on behalf of the said
person on the appointed day in such form and manner and within such time as
may be prescribed .
142. (1) Where any goods on whi ch tax, if any, had been paid under Miscellaneous
the existing law at the time of sale thereof, not being earlier than six transitional
provisions.
months prior to the appointed day, are returned to any place of business
on or after the appointed day, the registered person shall be eligible for
refund of the tax paid under the existing law where such goods are
returned by a person, other than a registered person, to the said place of
business within a period of six months from the appointed day and such
goods are identifiable to the satisfaction of the proper officer:
Provided that if the said goods are returned by a registered
person, the return of such goods shall be deemed to be a supply.
(2) (a) where, in pursuance of a contract entered into prior to the
appointed day, the price of any goods is revised upwards on
or after the appointed day, the registered person who had sold
such goods shall issue to the recipient a supplementary
invoice or debit note, containing such particulars as may be
prescribed, within thirty days of such price revision and for
the purposes of this Act, such supplementary invoice or debit
note shall be deemed to have been issued in respect of an
outward supply made under this Act;
(b) where, in pursuance of a contract entered into prior to the
appointed day, the price of any goods is revised
downwards on or after the appointed day, the registered
person who had sold such goods may issue to the
recipient a credit note, containing such particulars as may
be prescribed, within thirty days of such price revision
and for the purposes of this Act such credit note shall be
deemed to have been issued in respect of an outward
supply made under this Act:

1318 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
Provided that the registered person shall be allowed to reduce
his tax liability on account of issue of the credit note only if the recipient
of the credit note has reduced his input tax credit corresponding to such
reduction of tax liability.
(3) Every claim for refund filed by any person before, on or after the
appointed day for refund of any amount of input tax credit, tax, interest or any
other amount paid under the existing law, shall be disposed of in accordance
with the provisions of existing law and any amount eventually accruing to him
shall be refunded to him in cash in accordance with the provisions of the said
law:
Provided that where any claim for refund of the amount o f
input tax credit is fully or partially rejected, the amount so rejected shall
lapse:
Provided further that no refund shall be allowed of any amount
of input tax credit where the balance of the said amount as on the
appointed day has been carried forwar d under this Act.
(4) Every claim for refund filed after the appointed day for refund of
any tax paid under the existing law in respect of the goods exported before or
after the appointed day, shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions
of the existing law:
Provided that where any claim for refund of input tax credit is
fully or partially rejected, the amount so rejected shall lapse:
Provided further that no refund shall be allowed of any amount
of input tax credit where the balance of the s aid amount as on the
appointed day has been carried forward under this Act.
(5) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act, any
amount of input tax credit reversed prior to the appointed day shall not be
admissible as input tax credit under this Act.
(6) (a) every proceeding of appeal, revision, review or reference
relating to a claim for input tax credit initiated whether
before, on or after the appointed day under the existing law
shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of the
existing law, and any amount of credit found to be admissible
to the claimant shall be refunded to him in cash in accordance
with the provisions of the existing law, and the amount
rejected, if any, shall not be admissible as input tax credit
under this Act:
Provided that no refund shall be allowed of any
amount of input tax credit where the balance of the said
amount as on the appointed day has been carried forward
under this Act;
(b) every proceeding of appeal, revision, review or reference
relating to recovery of input tax credit initiated whether
before, on or after the appointed day under the existing law
shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of
the existing law, and if any amount of credit becomes

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1319
recoverable as a result of such appeal, revision, review or
reference, the same shall, unless recovered under the existing
law, be recovered as an arrear of tax under this Act and the
amount so recovered shall not be admissible as input tax
credit under this Act.
(7) (a) every proceeding of appeal, revision, review or reference relating
to any output tax liability initiated whether before, on or after the
appointed day under the existing law, shall be disposed of in
accordance with the provisions of the existing law, and if any
amount becomes recoverable as a result of such appeal, revision,
review or reference, the same shall, unless recovered under the
existing law, be recovered as an arrear of tax under this Act and
the amount so recovered shall not be admissible as input tax credit
under this Act.
(b) every proceeding of appeal, revision, review or reference
relating to any output tax liability initiated whether before,
on or after the appointed day under the existing law, shall be
disposed of in accordance with the provisions of the existing
law, and any amount found to be admissible to the claimant
shall be refunded to him in cash in accordance with the
provisions of the existing law and the amount rejected, if
any, shall not be admissible as input tax credit under this Act.
(8) (a) where in pursuance of an assessment or adjudication proceedings
instituted, whether before, on or after the appointed day under the
existing law, any amount of tax, interest, fine or penalty becomes
recoverable from the person, the same shall, unless recovered
under the existing law, be recovered as an arrear of tax under this
Act and the amount so recovered shall not be admissible as input
tax credit under this Act;
(b) where in pursuance of an assessment or adjudication
proceedings instituted, whether before, on or after the
appointed day under the existing law, any amount of tax,
interest, fine or penalty becomes refundable to the taxable
person, the same shall be refunded to him in cash under the
said law, and the amount rejected, if any, shall not be
admissible as input tax credit under this Act.
(9) (a) where any return, furnished under the existing law, is revised after
the appointed day and if, pursuant to such revision, any amount is
found to be recoverable or any amount of input tax credit is found
to be inadmissible, the same shall, unless recovered under the
existing law, be recovered as an arrear of tax under this Act and
the amount so recovered shall not be admissible as input tax credit
under this Act;

1320 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(b) where any return, furnished under the existing law, is
revised after the appointed day but within the time limit
specified for such revision under the existing law and if,
pursuant to such revision, any amount is found to be
refundable or input tax credit is found to be admissible to
any taxable person, the same shall be refunded to him in
cash under the existing law, and the amount rejected, if
any, shall not be admissible as input tax credit under this
Act.
(10) Save as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the goods or services or
both supplied on or after the appointed day in pursuance of a contract entered
into prior to the appointed day shall be liable to tax under the provisions of this
Act.
(11) (a) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 12, no tax shall
be payable on goods under this Act to the extent the tax was
leviable on the said goods under the Haryana Value Added
Tax Act, 2003 (6 of 2003);
(b) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 13, no tax shall
be payable on services under this Act to the extent the tax was
leviable on the said services under Chapter V of the Finance
Act, 1994 (Central Act 32 of 1994);
(c) where tax was paid on any supply, both under the Haryana
Value Added Tax Act, 2003 (6 of 2003) and under Chapter V
of the Finance Act, 1994 (Central Act 32 of 1994), tax shall be
leviable under this Act and the taxable person shall be entitled
to take credit of value added tax or service tax paid under the
existing law to the extent of supplies made after the appointed
day and such credit shall be calculated in such manner as may
be prescribed.
(12) Where any goods sent on approval basis, not earlier than six months
before the appointed day, are rejected or not approved by th e buyer and returned
to the seller on or after the appointed day, no tax shall be payable thereon if
such goods are returned within six months from the appointed day:
Provided that the said period of six months may, on sufficient
cause being shown, be ex tended by the Commissioner for a further period
not exceeding two months:
Provided further that the tax shall be payable by the person
returning the goods if such goods are liable to tax under this Act, and are
returned after the period specified in this sub - section:
Provided further that tax shall be payable by the person who has
sent the goods on approval basis if such goods are liable to tax under this
Act, and are not returned within the period specified in this sub - section.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1321
(13) Where a supplier has made any sale of goods in respect of which
tax was required to be deducted at source under the Haryana Value Added
Tax, 2003 (6 of 2003) and has also issued an invoice for the same before the
appointed day, no deduction of tax at sourc e under section 51 shall be made
by the deductor under the said section where payment to the said supplier is
made on or after the appointed day.
(14) Where any goods or capital goods belonging to the principal are
lying at the premises of the agent on t he appointed day, the agent shall be
entitled to take credit of the tax paid on such goods or capital goods subject to
fulfilment of the following conditions:
(i) the agent is a registered taxable person under this Act;
(ii) both the principal and the agent declare the details of stock of
goods or capital goods lying with such agent on the day
immediately preceding the appointed day in such form and
manner and within such time, as may be prescribed in this
behalf;
(iii) the invoices for such goods or capital goods had been issued
not earlier than twelve months immediately preceding the
appointed day; and
(iv) the principal has either reversed or not availed of the input tax
credit in respect of such,-
(a) goods; or
(b) capital goods or, having availed of such credit,
has reversed the said credit, to the extent availed of by
him.
Explanation. — For the purposes of this Chapter, the expression “capital
goods” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the
Haryana Value Added Tax, 2003 (6 of 2003) .
CHAPTER XXI
MISCELLANEOUS
143. (1) A registered person (hereafter in this section referred to as the Job work procedure.
“principal”) may, under intimation and subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed, send any inputs or capital goods, without payment of tax, to a job
worker for job work and from there subsequently send to another job worker
and likewise, and shall,-
(a) bring back inputs, after completion of job work or otherwise,
or capital goods, other than moulds and dies, jigs and fixtures,
or tools, within one year and three years, respectively, of their
being sent out, to any of his place of business, without
payment of tax;

1322 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(b) supply such inputs, after completion of job work or
otherwise, or capital goods, other than moulds and dies, jigs
and fixtures, or tools, within one year and three years,
respectively, of their being sent out from the place of business
of a job worker on payment of tax within India, or with or
without payment of tax for export, as the case may be:
Provided that the principal shall not supply the goods
from the place of business of a job worker in accordance with
the provisions of this clause unless the said principal declares
the place of business of the job worker as his additional place
of business except in a case-
(i) where the job worker is registered under section 25; or
(ii) where the principal is engaged in the supply of such
goods, as may be notified by the Commissioner.
(2) The responsibility for keeping proper accounts for the inputs or
capital goods shall lie with the principal.
(3) Where the inputs sent for job work are not received back by the
principal after completion of job work or otherwise in accordance with the
provisions of clause (a) of sub-section (1) or are not supplied from the place
of business of the job worker in accordance with the provisions of clause (b)
of sub-section (1) within a period of one year of their being sent out, it shall
be deemed that such inputs had been supplied by the principal to the job
worker on the day when the said inputs were sent out.
(4) Where the capital goods, other than moulds and dies, jigs and
fixtures, or tools, sent for job work are not received back by the principal in
accordance with the provisions of clause (a) of sub-section (1) or are not
supplied from the place of business of the job worker in accordance with the
provisions of clause (b) of sub-section (1) within a period of three years of
their being sent out, it shall be deemed that such capital goods had been
supplied by the principal to the job worker on the day when the said capital
goods were sent out.
(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (2),
any waste and scrap generated during the job work may be supplied by the job
worker directly from his place of business on payment of tax, if such job
worker is registered, or by the principal, if the job worker is not registered.
Explanation. — For the purposes of job work, input includes
intermediate goods arising from any treatment or
process carried out on the inputs by the principal
or the job worker.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1323
144. Where any document- Presumption as to
documents in
(i) is produced by any person under this Act or any other law for the certain cases.
time being in force; or
(ii) has been seized from the custody or control of any person under
this Act or any other law for the time being in force; or
(iii) has been received from any place outside India in the course of any
proceedings under this Act or any other law for the time being in
force;
and such document is tendered by the prosecution in evidence against
him or any other person who is tried jointly with him, the court shall-
(a) unless the contrary is proved by such person, presume-
(i) the truth of the contents of such document;
(ii) that the signature and every other part of such document
which purports to be in the handwriting of any
particular person or which the court may reasonably
assume to have been signed by, or to be in the
handwriting of, any particular person, is in that person’s
handwriting, and in the case of a document executed or
attested, that it was executed or attested by the person
by whom it purports to have been so executed or
attested;
(b) admit the document in evidence notwithstanding that it is not
duly stamped, if such document is otherwise admissible in
evidence.
145. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time Admissibility of
micro films, being in force, — facsimile copies of
(a) a micro film of a document or the reproduction of the image documents and
computer printouts
or images embodied in such micro film (whether enlarged or as documents and as
not); or evidence.
(b) a facsimile copy of a document; or
(c) a statement contained in a document and included in a printed
material produced by a computer, subject to such conditions,
as may be prescribed; or
(d) any information stored electronically in any device or media,
including any hard copies made of such information,
shall be deemed to be a document for the purposes of this Act and the rules
made thereunder and shall be admissible in any proceedings thereunder,
without further proof or production of the original, as evidence of any contents
of the original or of any fact stated therein of which direct evidence would be
admissible.

1324 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(2) In any proceedings under this Act and or the rules
made thereunder, where it is desired to give a statement in evidence by virtue
of this section, a certificate, —
(a) identifying the document containing the statement and
describing the manner in which it was produced;
(b) giving such particulars of any device involved in the
production of that document as may be appropriate for the
purpose of showing that the document was produced by a
computer,
shall be evidence of any matter stated in the certificate and for the purposes of
this sub-section it shall be sufficient for a matter to be stated to the best of the
knowledge and belief of the person stating it.
Common Portal. 146. The Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, notify
the Common Goods and Services Tax Electronic Portal for facilitating
registration, payment of tax, furnishing of returns, computation and settlement
of integrated tax, electronic way bill and for carrying out such other functions
and for such purposes, as may be prescribed.
Deemed Exports. 147. The Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, notify
certain supplies of goods as “deemed exports”, where goods supplied do not
leave India, and payment for such supplies is received either in Indian rupees
or in convertible foreign exchange, if such goods are manufactured in India.
Special procedure 148. The Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, and
for certain subject to such conditions and safeguards as may be prescribed, notify certain
processes.
classes of registered persons, and the special procedures to be followed by
such persons including those with regard to registration, furnishing of return,
payment of tax and administration of such persons.
Goods and services 149. (1) Every registered person may be assigned a goods and services tax
tax compliance compliance rating score by the Government based on his record of compliance rating.
with the provisions of this Act.
(2) The goods and services tax compliance rating score may be
determined on the basis of such parameters, as may be prescribed.
(3) The goods and services tax compliance rating score may be updated
at periodic intervals and intimated to the registered person and also placed in
the public domain in such manner, as may be prescribed.
Obligation to 150. (1) Any person, being-
furnish information
retu rn. (a) a taxable person; or

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1325
(b) a local authority or other public body or association; or
(c) any authority of the State Government responsible for the
collection of value added tax or sales tax or State excise duty
or an authority of the Central Government responsible for the
collection of excise duty or customs duty; or
(d) an income tax authority appointed under the provisions of the
Income-tax Act, 1961 (Central Act 43 of 1961); or
(e) a banking company within the meaning of clause (a) of
section 45A of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (Central
Act 2 of 1934); or
(f) a State Electricity Board or an electricity distribution or
transmission licensee under the Electricity Act, 2003 (Central
Act 36 of 2003), or any other entity entrusted with such
functions by the Central Government or the State
Government; or
(g) the Registrar or Sub-Registrar appointed under section 6 of
the Registration Act, 1908 (Central Act 16 of 1908); or
(h) a Registrar within the meaning of the Companies Act, 2013
(Central Act 18 of 2013); or
(i) the registering authority empowered to register motor
vehicles under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59
of 1988); or
(j) the Collector referred to in clause (c) of section 3 of the Right
to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition,
Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (Central Act 30 of
2013); or
(k) the recognised stock exchange referred to in clause (f) of
section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956
(Central Act 42 of 1956); or
(l) a depository referred to in clause (e) of sub-section (1) of
section 2 of the Depositories Act, 1996 (Central Act 22 of
1996); or
(m) an officer of the Reserve Bank of India as constituted under
section 3 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (Central Act
2 of 1934); or
(n) the Goods and Services Tax Network, a company registered
under the Companies Act, 2013 (Central Act 18 of 2013); or
(o) a person to whom a Unique Identity Number has been granted
under sub-section (9) of section 25; or
(p) any other person as may be specified, on the
recommendations of the Council, by the Government,
who is responsible for maintaining record of registration or
statement of accounts or any periodic return or document
containing details of payment of tax and other details of transaction

1326 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
of goods or services or both or transactions related to a bank account or
consumption of electricity or transaction of purchase, sale or exchange of
goods or property or right or interest in a property under any law for the time
being in force, shall furnish an information return of the same in respect of
such periods, within such time, in such form and manner and to such authority
or agency, as may be prescribed.
(2) Where the Commissioner, or an officer authorised by him in this
behalf, considers that the information furnished in the information return is
defective, he may intimate the defect to the person who has furnished such
information return and give him an opportunity of rectifying the defect within
a period of thirty days from the date of such intimation or within such further
period which, on an application made in this behalf, the said authority may
allow and if the defect is not rectified within the said period of thirty days or,
the further period so allowed, then, notwithstanding anything contained in any
other provisions of this Act, such information return shall be treated as not
furnished and the provisions of this Act shall apply.
(3) Where a person who is required to furnish information return has
not furnished the same within the time specified in sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2), the said authority may serve upon him a notice requiring
furnishing of such information return within a period not exceeding ninety
days from the date of service of the notice and such person shall furnish the
information return.
Power to collect
statistics. 151. (1) The Commissioner may, if he considers that it is necessary so to
do, by notification, direct that statistics may be collected relating to any matter
dealt with by or in connection with this Act.
(2) Upon such notification being issued, the Commissioner, or any
person authorised by him in this behalf, may call upon the concerned persons
to furnish such information or returns, in such form and manner, as may be
prescribed, relating to any matter in respect of which statistics is to be
collected.
Bar on disclosure of
information. 152. (1) No information of any individual return or part thereof with respect
to any matter given for the purposes of section 150 or section 151 shall,
without the previous consent in writing of the concerned person or his
authorised representative, be published in such manner so as to enable such
particulars to be identified as referring to a particular person and no such
information shall be used for the purpose of any proceedings under this Act.
(2) Except for the purposes of prosecution under this Act or any other
Act for the time being in force, no person who is not engaged in the collection
of statistics under this Act or compilation or computerisation thereof for the
purposes of this Act, shall be permitted to see or have access to any
information or any individual return referred to in section 151.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1327
(3) Nothing in this section shall apply to the publication of any
information relating to a class of taxable persons or class of transactions, if in
the opinion of the Commissioner, it is desirable in the public interest to publish
such information.
153. An y officer not below the rank of Assistant Commissioner may, having Taking assistance
regard to the nature and complexity of the case and the interest of revenue, from an expert.
take assistance of any expert at any stage of scrutiny, inquiry, investigation or
any other proceedings before h im.
154. The Commissioner or an officer authorised by him may take samples of Power to take
goods from the possession of any taxable person, where he considers it samples.
necessary, and provide a receipt for any samples so taken.
155. Where any person claims that he is eligible for input tax credit under Burden of Proof.
this Act, the burden of proving such claim shall lie on such person.
156. All persons discharging functions under this Act shall be deemed to be Persons deemed to
public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code be public servants.
(Central Act 45 of 1860).
157. (1) No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Protection of action
President, State President, Members, officers or other employees of the taken under this
Act.
Appellate Tribunal or any other person authorised by the said Appellate
Tribunal for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under
this Act or the rules made thereunder.
(2) No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any
officer appointed or authorised under this Act for anything which is done or
intended to be done in good faith under this Act or the rules made thereunder.
158. (1) All particulars contained in any statement made, return furnished Disclosure of
or accounts or documents produced in accordance with this Act, or in any information by a
public servant.
record of evidence given in the course of any proceedings under this Act (other
than proceedings before a criminal court), or in any record of any proceedings
under this Act shall, save as provided in sub-section (3), not be disclosed.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Evidence Act,
1872 (Central Act 1 of 1872), no court shall, save as otherwise provided in
sub-section (3), require any officer appointed or authorised under this Act to
produce before it or to give evidence before it in respect of particulars referred
to in sub-section (1).
(3) Nothing contained in this section shall apply to the disclosure of,-
(a) any particulars in respect of any statement, return, accounts,
documents, evidence, affidavit or deposition, for the purpose
of any prosecution under the Indian Penal Code (Central Act
45 of 1860) or the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988
(Central Act 49 of 1988), or any other law for the time being
in force; or

1328 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(b) any particulars to the Central Government or the State
Government or to any person acting in the implementation of this
Act, for the purposes of carrying out the objects of this Act; or
(c) any particulars when such disclosure is occasioned by the lawful
exercise under this Act of any process for the service of any notice
or recovery of any demand; or
(d) any particulars to a civil court in any suit or proceedings, to which
the Government or any authority under this Act is a party, which
relates to any matter arising out of any proceedings under this Act
or under any other law for the time being in force authorising any
such authority to exercise any powers thereunder; or
(e) any particulars to any officer appointed for the purpose of audit of
tax receipts or refunds of the tax imposed by this Act; or
(f) any particulars where such particulars are relevant for the purposes
of any inquiry into the conduct of any officer appointed or
authorised under this Act, to any person or persons appointed as
an inquiry officer under any law for the time being in force; or
(g) any such particulars to an officer of the Central Government or of
any State Government, as may be necessary for the purpose of
enabling that Government to levy or realise any tax or duty; or
(h) any particulars when such disclosure is occasioned by the lawful
exercise by a public servant or any other statutory authority, of his
or its powers under any law for the time being in force; or
(i) any particulars relevant to any inquiry into a charge of misconduct
in connection with any proceedings under this Act against a
practising advocate, a tax practitioner, a practising cost
accountant, a practising chartered accountant, a practising
company secretary to the authority empowered to take
disciplinary action against the members practising the profession
of a legal practitioner, a cost accountant, a chartered accountant or
a company secretary, as the case may be; or
(j) any particulars to any agency appointed for the purposes of data
entry on any automated system or for the purpose of operating,
upgrading or maintaining any automated system where such
agency is contractually bound not to use or disclose such
particulars except for the aforesaid purposes; or
(k) any such particulars to an officer of the Government as may be
necessary for the purposes of any other law for the time being in
force; and
(l) any information relating to any class of taxable persons or class of
transactions for publication, if, in the opinion of the
Commissioner, it is desirable in the public interest, to publish such
information.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1329
159. (1) If the Commissioner, or any other officer authorised by him in this Publication of
behalf, is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient in the public interest to information in
publish the name of any person and any other particulars relating to any respect of
persons in certain
proceedings or prosecution under this Act in respect of such person, it may cause cases.
to be published such name and particulars in such manner as it thinks fit.
(2) No publication under this section shall be made in relation to any
penalty imposed under this Act until the time for presenting an appeal to the
Appellate Authority under section 107 has expired without an appeal having
been presented or the appeal, if presented, has been disposed of.
Explanation. — In the case of firm, company or other association of
persons, the names of the partners of the firm,
directors, managing agents, secretaries and treasurers
or managers of the company, or the members of the
association, as the case may be, may also be
published if, in the opinion of the Commissioner, or
any other officer authorised by him in this behalf,
circumstances of the case justify it.
160. (1) No assessment, re-assessment, adjudication, review, revision, appeal, Assessment
rectification, notice, summons or other proceedings done, accepted, made, proceedings, etc.
issued, initiated, or purported to have been done, accepted, made, issued, not to be invalid
on certain
initiated in pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act shall be invalid or grounds.
deemed to be invalid merely by reason of any mistake, defect or omission
therein, if such assessment, re-assessment, adjudication, review, revision,
appeal, rectification, notice, summons or other proceedings are in substance and
effect in conformity with or according to the intents, purposes and requirements
of this Act or any existing law.
(2) The service of any notice, order or communication shall not be called
in question, if the notice, order or communication, as the case may be, has
already been acted upon by the person to whom it is issued or where such service
has not been called in question at or in the earlier proceedings commenced,
continued or finalised pursuant to such notice, order or communication.
161. Without prejudice to the provisions of section 160, and notwithstanding Rectification of
anything contained in any other provisions of this Act, any authority, who has errors apparent
passed or issued any decision or order or notice or certificate or any other on the fac e of
record.
document, may rectify any error which is apparent on the face of record in such
decision or order or notice or certificate or any other document, either on its own
motion or where such error is brought to its notice by any officer appointed under
this Act or an officer appointed under the Central Goods and Services Tax Act
or by the affected person within a period of three months from the date of issue
of such decision or order or notice or certificate or any other document, as the
case may be:
Provided that no such rectification shall be done after a period of six
months from the date of issue of such decision or order or notice or certificate
or any other document:

1330 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
Provided further that the said period of six months shall not apply in such
cases where the rectification is purely in the nature of correction of a clerical
or arithmetical error, arising from any accidental slip or omission:
Provided further that where such rectification adversely affects any
person, the principles of natural justice shall be followed by the authority
carrying out such rectification.
Bar on jurisdiction 162. Save as provided in sections 117 and 118, no civil court shall have
of civil courts. jurisdiction to deal with or decide any question arising from or relating to
anything done or purported to be done under this Act.
Levy of fee. 163. Wherever a copy of any order or document is to be provided to any
person on an application made by him for that purpose, there shall be paid
such fee, as may be prescribed.
Power of 164. (1) The Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, by
Government to
make rules. notification, make rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-section
(1), the Government may make rules for all or any of the matters which by this
Act are required to be, or may be, prescribed or in respect of which provisions
are to be or may be made by rules.
(3) The power to make rules conferred by this section shall include the
power to give retrospective effect to the rules or any of them from a date not
earlier than the date on which the provisions of this Act come into force.
(4) Any rules made under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) may
provide that a contravention thereof shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding
ten thousand rupees.
Power to make
regulations. 165. The Government may, by notification, make regulations consistent with
this Act and the rules made thereunder to carry out the provisions of this Act.
Laying of rules,
regulations and 166. Every rule made by the Government, every regulation made by the
notifications. Government and every notification issued by the Government under this Act,
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made or issued, before the State
Legislature, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may
be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, the State Legislature agrees in making any
modification in the rule or regulation or in the notification, as the case may be,
or the State Legislature agrees that the rule or regulation or the notification
should not be made, the rule or regulation or notification, as the case may be,
shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as
the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule or regulation or notification, as the case may be.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1331
167. The Commissioner may, by notification, direct that subject to such Delegation of powers.
conditions, if any, as may be specified in the notification, any power
exercisable by any authority or officer under this Act may be exercisable also
by another authority or officer, as may be specified in such notification.
168. The Commissioner may, if he considers it necessary or expedient so to Power to issue
do for the purpose of uniformity in the implementation of this Act, issue such instructions or
orders, instructions or directions to the State tax officers as it may deem fit, directions.
and thereupon all such officers and all other persons employed in the
implementation of this Act shall observe and follow such orders, instructions
or directions.
169. (1) Any decision, order, summons, notice or other communication under Service of notice in
this Act or the rules made thereunder shall be served by any one of the certain circumstances.
following methods, namely:--
(a) by giving or tendering it directly or by a messenger including
a courier to the addressee or the taxable person or to his
manager or authorised representative or an advocate or a tax
practitioner holding authority to appear in the proceedings on
behalf of the taxable person or to a person regularly employed
by him in connection with the business, or to any adult member
of family residing with the taxable person; or
(b) by registered post or speed post or courier with
acknowledgement due, to the person for whom it is intended or
his authorised representative, if any, at his last known place of
business or residence; or
(c) by sending a communication to his e-mail address provided at
the time of registration or as amended from time to time; or
(d) by making it available on the common portal; or
(e) by publication in a newspaper circulating in the locality in
which the taxable person or the person to whom it is issued is
last known to have resided, carried on business or personally
worked for gain; or
(f) if none of the modes aforesaid is practicable, by affixing it in
some conspicuous place at his last known place of business or
residence and if such mode is not practicable for any reason,
then by affixing a copy thereof on the notice board of the office
of the concerned officer or authority who or which passed such
decision or order or issued such summons or notice.
(2) Every decision, order, summons, notice or any communication
shall be deemed to have been served on the date on which it is tendered or
published or a copy thereof is affixed in the manner provided in
sub-section (1).
(3) When such decision, order, summons, notice or any
communication is sent by registered post or speed post, it shall be deemed to
have been received by the addressee at the expiry of the period normally taken
by such post in transit unless the contrary is proved.

1332 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
Rounding off of tax 170. The amount of tax, interest, penalty, fine or any other sum payable, and
etc. the amount of refund or any other sum due, under the provisions of this Act
shall be rounded off to the nearest rupee and, for this purpose, where such
amount contains a part of a rupee consisting of paise, then, if such part is fifty
paise or more, it shall be increased to one rupee and if such part is less than
fifty paise it shall be ignored.
Anti - profiteering 171. (1) Any reduction in rate of tax on any supply of goods or services or
measure. the benefit of input tax credit shall be passed on to the recipient by way of
commensurate reduction in prices.
(2) The Central Government may, on recommendations of the
Council, by notification, constitute an Authority, or empower an existing
Authority constituted under any law for the time being in force, to examine
whether input tax credits availed by any registered person or the reduction in
the tax rate have actually resulted in a commensurate reduction in the price of
the goods or services or both supplied by him.
(3) The Authority referred to in sub-section (2) shall exercise such
powers and discharge such functions, as may be prescribed.
Removal of 172. (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to any provisions of this
difficulties.
Act, the Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, by a
general or a special order published in the Official Gazette, make such
provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or the rules or
regulations made thereunder, as may be necessary or expedient for the purpose
of removing the said difficulty:
Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a
period of three years from the date of commencement of this Act.
(2) Every order made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may
be, after it is made, before the State Legislature.
Omission of certain 173. Save as otherwise provided in this Act, on and from the date of
sections of Haryana
Act 16 of 1994. commencement of this Act, clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 88 and
section 121 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (16 of 1994)
shall be omitted.
Repeal and savings. 174. (1) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, on and from the date of
commencement of this Act,
(i) the Haryana Value Added Tax Act, 2003 (6 of 2003), except
in respect of goods included in the Entry 54 of the State List
of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution;
(ii) The Haryana Tax on Entry of Goods into Local Areas Act,
2008 (8 of 2008);
(iii) The Punjab Entertainments Duty Act, 1955 (Punjab Act 16
of 1955) as applicable to the State of Haryana, except to the
extent levied and collected by a Panchayat or a Municipality
or a Regional Council or a District Council;

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1333
(iv) The Haryana Tax on Luxuries Act, 2007 (23 of 2007),
(hereinafter referred to as the repealed Acts) are hereby repealed.
(2) The repeal of the said Acts and the amendment of the Acts specified in
section 173 (hereafter referred to as “such amendment” or “a mended Act”, as the
case may be) to the extent mentioned in sub-section (1) or section 173 shall not-
(a) revive anything not in force or existing at the time of such
amendment or repeal; or
(b) affect the previous operation of the amended Acts or repealed
Acts and orders or anything duly done or suffered thereunder; or
(c) affect any right, privilege, obligation, or liability acquired,
accrued or incurred under the amended Acts or repealed Acts or
orders under such repealed or amended Acts:
Provided that any tax exemption granted as an incentive
against investment through a notification shall not continue as
privilege if the said notification is rescinded on or after the
appointed day; or
(d) affect any tax, surcharge, penalty, fine, interest as are due or may
become due or any forfeiture or punishment incurred or inflicted
in respect of any offence or violation committed against the
provisions of the amended Acts or repealed Acts; or
(e) affect any investigation, inquiry, verification (including scrutiny
and audit), assessment proceedings, adjudication and any other
legal proceedings or recovery of arrears or remedy in respect of
any such tax, surcharge, penalty, fine, interest, right, privilege,
obligation, liability, forfeiture or punishment, as aforesaid, and
any such investigation, inquiry, verification (including scrutiny
and audit), assessment proceedings, adjudication and other legal
proceedings or recovery of arrears or remedy may be instituted,
continued or enforced, and any such tax, surcharge, penalty, fine,
interest, forfeiture or punishment may be levied or imposed as if
these Acts had not been so amended or repealed; or
(f) affect any proceedings including that relating to an appeal,
revision, review or reference, instituted before, on or after the
appointed day under the said amended Acts or repealed Acts and
such proceedings shall be continued under the said amended
Acts or repealed Acts as if this Act had not come into force and
the said Acts had not been amended or repealed.
(3) The mention of the particular matters referred to in section 173 and
sub-section (1) shall not be held to prejudice or affect the general application of
section 4 of the Punjab General Clauses Act, 1898 (Punjab Act 1 of 1898) with
regard to the effect of repeal.

1334 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
SCHEDULE I
[ See section 7 ]
ACTIVITIES TO BE TREATED AS SUPPLY EVEN IF MADE WITHOUT
CONSIDERATION
1. Permanent transfer or disposal of business assets where input tax credit has been availed
on such assets.
2. Supply of goods or services or both between related persons or between distinct persons
as specified in section 25, when made in the course or furtherance of business:
Provided that gifts not exceeding fifty thousand rupees in value in a financial year by an
employer to an employee shall not be treated as supply of goods or services or both.
3. Supply of goods-
(a) by a principal to his agent where the agent undertakes to supply such goods on
behalf of the principal; or
(b) by an agent to his principal where the agent undertakes to receive such goods on
behalf of the principal.
4. Import of services by a taxable person from a related person or from any of his other
establishments outside India, in the course or furtherance of business.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1335
SCHEDULE II
[ See section 7 ]
ACTIVITIES TO BE TREATED AS SUPPLY OF GOODS OR SUPPLY OF SERVICES
1. Transfer
(a) any transfer of the title in goods is a supply of goods;
(b) any transfer of right in goods or of undivided share in goods without the transfer
of title thereof, is a supply of services;
(c) any transfer of title in goods under an agreement which stipulates that property in
goods shall pass at a future date upon payment of full consideration as agreed, is a
supply of goods.
2. Land and Building
(a) any lease, tenancy, easement, licence to occupy land is a supply of services;
(b) any lease or letting out of the building including a commercial, industrial or
residential complex for business or commerce, either wholly or partly, is a supply
of services.
3. Treatment or process
Any treatment or process which is applied to another person’s goods is a supply of
services.
4. Transfer of business assets
(a) where goods forming part of the assets of a business are transferred or disposed of
by or under the directions of the person carrying on the business so as no longer to
form part of those assets, whether or not for a consideration, such transfer or
disposal is a supply of goods by the person;
(b) where, by or under the direction of a person carrying on a business, goods held or
used for the purposes of the business are put to any private use or are used, or made
available to any person for use, for any purpose other than a purpose of the business,
whether or not for a consideration, the usage or making available of such goods is
a supply of services;
(c) where any person ceases to be a taxable person, any goods forming part of the assets
of any business carried on by him shall be deemed to be supplied by him in the
course or furtherance of his business immediately before he ceases to be a taxable
person, unless-
(i) the business is transferred as a going concern to another person; or
(ii) the business is carried on by a personal representative who is deemed to be
a taxable person.
5. Supply of services
The following shall be treated as supply of service, namely:-
(a) renting of immovable property;
(b) construction of a complex, building, civil structure or a part thereof, including a
complex or building intended for sale to a buyer, wholly or partly, except where

1336 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
the entire consideration has been received after issuance of completion certificate,
where required, by the competent authority or after its first occupation, whichever
is earlier.
Explanation. — For the purposes of this clause -
(1) the expression "competent authority" means the Government or any
authority authorised to issue completion certificate under any law for the
time being in force and in case of non - requirement of such certificate from
such authority, from any of the following, n amely: -
(i) an architect registered with the Council of Architecture constituted
under the Architects Act, 1972 (Central Act 20 of 1972); or
(ii) a chartered engineer registered with the Institution of Engineers
(India); or
(iii) a licensed surveyor of the respective local body of the city or town
or village or development or planning authority;
(2) the expression "construction" includes additions, alterations, replacements
or remodelling of any existing civil structure ;
(c) temporary transfer or permitting the use or enjoyment of any intellectual property
right;
(d) development, design, programming, customisation, adaptation, upgradation,
enhancement, implementation of information technology software;
(e) agreeing to the obligation to refrain from an act, or to tolerate an act or a situation,
or to do an act; and
(f) transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose (whether or not for a specified
period) for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration.
6. Composite supply
The following composite supplies shall be treated as a supply of services, namely:-
(a) works contract as defined in clause (119) of section 2; and
(b) supply, by way of or as part of any service or in any other manner whatsoever, of
goods, being food or any other article for human consumption or any drink (other
than alcoholic liquor for human consumption), where such supply or service is for
cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration.
7. Supply of Goods
The following shall be treated as supply of goods, namely:-
Supply of goods by any unincorporated association or body of persons to a member thereof
for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1337
SCHEDULE III
[ See section 7 ]
ACTIVITIES OR TRANSACTIONS WHICH SHALL BE TREATED NEITHER AS A
SUPPLY OF GOODS NOR A SUPPLY OF SERVICES
1. Services by an employee to the employer in the course of or in relation to his employment.
2. Services by any court or Tribunal established under any law for the time being in force.
3. (a) the functions performed by the Members of Parliament, Members of State
Legislature, Members of Panchayats, Members of Municipalities and Members of
other local authorities;
(b) the duties performed by any person who holds any post in pursuance of the
provisions of the Constitution in that capacity; or
(c) the duties performed by any person as a Chairperson or a Member or a Director in
a body established by the Central Government or a State Government or local
authority and who is not deemed as an employee before the commencement of this
clause.
4. Services of funeral, burial, crematorium or mortuary including transportation of the
deceased.
5. Sale of land and, subject to clause (b) of paragraph 5 of Schedule II, sale of building.
6. Actionable claims, other than lottery, betting and gambling.
Explanation. — For the purposes of paragraph 2, the term “court” includes District
Court, High Court and Supreme Court.
________________

1338 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS
Presently, the Constitution empowers the State Governments to levy tax on sale and purchase
of goods. The Central Government is vested with the powers to levy Excise Duty on manufacturing
of goods and Service Tax on the provision of services. This exclusive division of fiscal powers has
led to a multiplicity of indirect taxes in the country. In addition, Central Sales Tax (CST) is levied
on inter – state sales. Further, many States levy an Entry Tax on the entry of goods in local areas,
Entertainment Tax, Luxury Tax etc.,
1. The present tax system on goods and services in the country is facing certain difficulties
like ---(a) the multiplicity of taxes at the Central and State levels has resulted in complex
indirect tax structure that is ridden with hidden costs for the trade and industry: (b) there
is no uniformity of tax rates and structure across the States and there is cascading of taxes
due to “tax on tax” and (c) the credit of Excise Duty and Service Tax paid at the stage of
manufacture is not available to the trades while paying the State level Sales Tax or Value
Added Tax, and vice-versa. Further, the credit of State taxes paid in one State cannot be
availed in other States. Hence, the prices of goods and services get artificially inflated to
the extent of this “Tax on Tax”
2. In this regard 101st Constitution Amendment Act, 2016 has been enacted which
facilitates the introduction of Goods and Services Tax (GST) in the country. The
amended provisions of the Constitution empower both the Parliament and the State
legislatures simultaneously to make laws for levying GST on the intra-state supply of
goods and services on the same transaction.
3. Accordingly the parliament passed the Central GST Act (CGST) for levying tax on intra-
state supply of Goods and Services and Integrated GST (IGST) Act for levying tax on
inter-state supply of Goods and Services, Union Territory GST(UTGST) Act and the
Compensation Act for giving compensation to the states.
4. The GST Council has approved the model draft State GST (SGST) bill on 31-3-17 and
communicated to all the States with a request to pass the SGST Bill in the State
Legislature.
5. In view of the above, it has become necessary to have a State Legislation, namely, the
Haryana State Goods and Services Tax Bill, 2017. The proposed Legislation will confer
power upon the State Government for levying goods and services tax on the supply of
goods or services or both which takes place within the State.
6. The proposed State Goods and Services Tax Legislation will simplify and harmonize the
indirect tax regime in the country. It is expected to reduce the cost of production and
inflation in the economy, thereby making the Indian trade and industry more competitive,
domestically as well as internationally. It is also expected that introduction of goods and
services tax will foster a uniform national market and contribute significantly to the
growth of the economy. Due to the seamless transfer of input tax credit from one stage
to another in the chain of value addition, there is an in-built mechanism in the design of
goods and service tax that would incentivize tax compliance by taxpayers. The proposed
State Goods and Services Tax will broaden the tax base and result in better tax
compliance due to a robust information technology infrastructure.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1339
7. The Haryana State Goods and Services Tax Bill, 2017, inter alia, provides for the
following:-
(a) To levy on all intra-State supplies of goods or services or both except supply of
alcoholic liquor for human consumption, at such rates, not exceeding twenty per
cent, as may be notified on the recommendation of the Goods and Services Tax
Council ( the Council);
(b) At present tax on sale of petroleum crude, high speed diesel, motor spirit
(commonly known as petrol), natural gas and aviation turbine fuel will be levied
under the existing VAT Act till the Goods and Services Tax Council recommends
the date on which the goods and services tax will be levied on these items.
(c) The following State taxes are to be subsumed on passing of the SGST bill in the
State Legislature:
The Haryana Value added Tax Act, 2003, (except in respect of goods
included in the Entry 54 of the State List of the Seventh Schedule to the
Constitution) (to the extent and as per savings mentioned in section 174 of
SGST Bill).
(i) The Haryana Tax on Entry of Goods into Local Areas Act, 2008.
(ii) The Punjab Entertainments Duty Act, 1955 (except to the extent levied and
collected by Panchayat or a Municipality or Regional Council or a District
Council.
(iii) The Haryana Tax on Luxuries Act, 2007.
(iv) The tax on advertisement under clause (i) of sub-section (i) of section 88 and
Section 121 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (16 of 1994)
(d) Empowering the State Government to grant exemptions, by notification or by
special order, on the recommendations of the Council;
(e) Apportionment of tax and settlement of funds on account of transfer of input tax
credit between the Central Government and State Government.
(f) Recovery of tax, interest or penalty payable by a person to the Government which
remains unpaid, by the proper officer of State Tax;
(g) To establish an Authority for Advance Ruling in order to enable the taxpayer to
seek a binding clarity on taxation matters from the department;
(h) Elaborate transitional provisions for smooth transition of existing taxpayers to
Goods and Services Tax regime;
(i) Application of certain provisions of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017,
inter alia, relating to definitions, time and value of supply, input tax credit,
registration, returns other than late fee, payment of tax, assessment, refunds, audit,

1340 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
inspection, search, seizure and arrest, demands and recovery, appeals and revision,
offences and penalties and transitional provisions in the proposed Legislation; and
(j) Empowering the Commissioner to issue orders, instructions or directions to the
State tax officers.
8. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives.
CAPTAIN ABHIMANYU,
Excise and Taxation Minister, Haryana.
_____________
The Governor has, in pursuance of Clauses (1) and (3) of Article 207 of the Constitution
of India, recommended to the Haryana Legislative Assembly the Introduction and consideration of
the Bill.
CHANDIGARH: R. K.N ANDAL,
The 4th May, 2017 Secretary .

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1341
FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM
The Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) Act, 2016 empowers the state
Government to levy tax on intra-state supply of goods and services by subsuming value added tax
(except on alcohol for human consumption and petroleum products), entry tax, luxury tax,
advertisement tax. The Act further provides for compensation to the states for any shortfall in
revenue arising on account of implementation of the goods and services tax for a period of five
years.
The Liquor for human Consumption is outside the Purview of GST. Further, Petroleum
products will also continue to remain outside the domain of GST till such time as GST council may
decide to bring it under the ambit of GST. Petroleum products will continue to be taxed under the
present system of taxation till such time.
The Parliament has passed The Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act, 2017
to provide for compensation of revenue to the states for a period of five years. For the purpose of
arriving at the amount of compensation for any loss to the states on account of GST, financial year
2015-16 has been fixed as the base year for computation of compensation. The actual revenue of
any state during the base year on account of taxes being subsumed shall be taken as base revenue.
The projected revenue of the state for a year shall be computed from the base year revenue by adding
the growth at the compound annual rate of growth of 14% to the base revenue. The loss in revenue
for a financial year shall be the difference of projected revenue for that year and the actual receipts
from GST during that year.
The revenue details of the State of Haryana for 2015-16 are as follows:
The base revenue for 2015-16 excluding tax revenue for petroleum products and liquor
is ₹ 15168.06 Cr. The minimum assured revenue for the state for 9 months during the financial year
ending March, 2018 excluding tax revenue from liquor & petroleum products is:
Base Revenue of 2015-16 : ₹ 15168.06 Cr
(Excluding Petrol & Liquor)
Growth Rate : 14%
Projected
Revenue 2016-17 : ₹ 17291.59 Cr
Projected Revenue for 2017-18
For 12 months(y) : ₹ 19712.41 Cr
Projected Revenue for 9 months : ₹ 14784.31 Cr
The state shall get the difference of projected revenue for 9 months and actual receipt from GST
during the 9 months of 2017-18.
The GST tax regime will bring about greater compliance of tax payment. More revenue is likely to
accrue by broadcasting the tax base, better reconciliation of business transactions and input tax
credits.

1342 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION
Section 164 of the proposed Bill empowers the State Government to make rules to carry
out the purposes of the Act. This delegation of power to the Executive is of normal character and no
where over-rides the normal scope of delegation of legislative powers. Hence, this memorandum is
annexed to meet the requirements of rule 126 of the rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in
the Haryana Legislative Assembly.
55265 – H.V.S. – H.G.P., Chd.

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1343
[ izkf/kÑr vuqokn ]
2017 dk gfj;k.kk fo/ks;d la[;k 23&,p-,y-,- 2017 dk gfj;k.kk fo/ks;d la[;k 23&,p-,y-,- 2017 dk gfj;k.kk fo/ks;d la[;k 23&,p-,y-,- 2017 dk gfj;k.kk fo/ks;d la[;k 23&,p-,y-,- 2017 dk gfj;k.kk fo/ks;d la[;k 23&,p-,y-,-
gfj;k.kk gfj;k.kk gfj;k.kk gfj;k.kk gfj;k.kk eky eky eky eky eky vkSj vkSj vkSj vkSj vkSj lsok lsok lsok lsok lsok dj dj dj dj dj foèks;d] foèks;d] foèks;d] foèks;d] foèks;d] 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017
gfj;k.kk gfj;k.kk gfj;k.kk gfj;k.kk gfj;k.kk jkT; jkT; jkT; jkT; jkT; }kjk }kjk }kjk }kjk }kjk eky eky eky eky eky ;k ;k ;k ;k ;k lsokvksa lsokvksa lsokvksa lsokvksa lsokvksa ;k ;k ;k ;k ;k nksuksa nksuksa nksuksa nksuksa nksuksa ds ds ds ds ds var%jkT;h; var%jkT;h; var%jkT;h; var%jkT;h; var%jkT;h; çnk; çnk; çnk; çnk; çnk; ij ij ij ij ij
dj ds mn~xzg.k vkSj laxzg.k ds fy, vkSj mlls lacafèkr ;k dj ds mn~xzg.k vkSj laxzg.k ds fy, vkSj mlls lacafèkr ;k dj ds mn~xzg.k vkSj laxzg.k ds fy, vkSj mlls lacafèkr ;k dj ds mn~xzg.k vkSj laxzg.k ds fy, vkSj mlls lacafèkr ;k dj ds mn~xzg.k vkSj laxzg.k ds fy, vkSj mlls lacafèkr ;k
mlds mlds mlds mlds mlds vkuq"kafxd vkuq"kafxd vkuq"kafxd vkuq"kafxd vkuq"kafxd ekeyksa ekeyksa ekeyksa ekeyksa ekeyksa ds ds ds ds ds fy, fy, fy, fy, fy, mica/k mica/k mica/k mica/k mica/k
djus djus djus djus djus gsrq gsrq gsrq gsrq gsrq
foèks;d foèks;d foèks;d foèks;d foèks;d
Hkkjr x.kjkT; ds vM+lBosa o"kZ esa gfj;k.kk jkT; fo/kkue.My }kjk fuEufyf[kr
:i esa ;g vf/kfu;fer gks %&
1 - 1 - 1 - 1 - 1 - ¼1½ ;g vfèkfu;e gfj;k.kk eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017] dgk tk ldrk laf{kIr uke] foLrkj
gSA vkSj çkjaHkA
¼2½ bldk foLrkj laiw.kZ gfj;k.kk jkT; esa gSA
¼3½ ;g ,slh frfFk dks ykxw gksxk] tks jkT; ljdkj] jkti= esa vfèklwpuk }kjk]
fu;r djs %
ijarq bl vfèkfu;e ds fHkUu&fHkUu micaèkksa ds fy, fHkUu&fHkUu frfFk;ka fu;r dh
tk ldrh gSa vkSj fdlh ,sls micaèk esa bl vfèkfu;e ds çkjaHk ds çfr fdlh funZs'k dk ;g
vFkZ yxk;k tk,xk fd og ml micaèk ds ykxw gksus ds çfrfunZs'k gSA
2 - 2 - 2 - 2 - 2 - bl vfèkfu;e esa] tc rd lanHkZ ls vU;Fkk visf{kr u gks]& ifjHkk"kk,aA
¼1½ ^^vuq;ksT; nkok^^ dk ogh vFkZ gksxk] tks bls laifÙk varj.k vfèkfu;e] 1882
¼1882 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 4½] dh èkkjk 3 esa fn;k x;k gS (
¼2½ ^^ifjnku dk irk^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds ikus okys
dk ,slk irk] tks ,sls eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds ifjnku ds fy, fdlh

¼3½ ^^vfHkys[k ij irk^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] ikus okys dk og irk] tks çnk;drkZ ds
vfHkys[kksa esa miyCèk gS (
¼4½ ^^U;k;fu.kkZ;d çkfèkdkjh^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dksbZ vkns'k
;k fu.kZ; ikfjr djus ds fy, fu;qDr ;k çkfèk—r dksbZ çkfèkdkjh] fdarq blesa
vk;qDr] iqujh{k.k çkfèkdkjh] vfxze fofu.kZ; çkfèkdkjh] vfxze fofu.kZ; vihy
çkfèkdkjh] vihy çkfèkdkjh vkSj vihy vfèkdj.k 'kkfey ugha gS (
¼5½ ^^vfHkdrkZ^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] QsDVj] nyky] deh'ku vfHkdrkZ] vk<+fr;k] çR;k;d
vfHkdrkZ ¼Msy ØsMj ,tsaV½] uhykedrkZ ;k dksbZ vU; okf.kfT;d vfHkdrkZ]

1344 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
pkgs fdlh Hkh uke ls Kkr gks] lfgr dksbZ ,slk O;fDr gS] tks fdlh vU;
O;fDr dh vksj ls eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ;k çkfIr dk dkjckj
djrk gS (
¼6½ ^^ladfyr vkorZ^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] vf[ky Hkkjrh; vkèkkj ij laxf.kr leku
LFkk;h [kkrk la[;k okys O;fDr;ksa ds lHkh djkèks; çnk;ksa ¼,sls vkod çnk;ksa
ds ewY; dks vioftZr djds] ftl ij fdlh O;fDr }kjk foijhr çHkkj ds
vkèkkj ij dj Hkqxrku;ksX; gS½] NwV çkIr çnk;ksa] eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa
ds fu;kZrksa vkSj varjjkfT¸kd çnk;ksa dk ladfyr ewY;] fdarq blesa dsaæh; dj]
jkT; dj] la?k jkT; {ks= dj] ,dh—r dj vkSj midj vioftZr gS (
¼7½ ^^—"kd^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] ,slk dksbZ O;fDr ;k dksbZ fganw vfoHkDr dqVqac] tks]&
¼d½ Lo;a ds Je }kjk ( ;k
¼[k½ dqVqac ds Je }kjk ( ;k
¼x½ udn ;k oLrq ds :i esa Hkqxrku;ksX; etnwjh ij lsodksa }kjk ;k O;fDrxr
i;Zos{k.k ds vèkhu ;k dqVqac ds fdlh lnL; ds O;fDrxr i;Zos{k.k ds
vèkhu HkkM+s ds etnwjksa }kjk]
Hkwfe ij [ksrh djrk gS (
¼8½ ^^vihy çkfèkdkjh^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 107 esa ;Fkk fufnZ"V vihyksa dh lquokbZ
ds fy, fu;qDr ;k çkfèk—r dksbZ çkfèkdkjh(
¼9½ ^^vihy vfèkdj.k^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 109 esa fufnZ"V eky vkSj lsok dj
vihy vfèkdj.k(
¼10½ ^^fu;r fnu^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] og frfFk ftldks bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèk ykxw
gksaxs (
¼11½ ^^fuèkkZj.k^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj ds nkf;Ro dk voèkkj.k
vkSj blesa Lor%&fuèkkZj.k] iqu%&fuèkkZj.k] vuafre fuèkkZj.k] laf{kIr fuèkkZj.k
vkSj lokZsÙke foosd cqf) ds vuqlkj fuèkkZj.k Hkh 'kkfey gS (
¼12½ ^^lg;qDr m|eksa^^ dk ogh vFkZ gksxk] tks bls vk;dj vfèkfu;e]1961
¼1961 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 43½] dh èkkjk 92d esa fn;k x;k gS (
¼13½ ^^laijh{kk^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds vèkhu cuk, x, fu;eksa ;k
rRle; ykxw fdlh vU; fofèk ds vèkhu 
;k fn, x, vfHkys[kksa] foojf.k;ksa vkSj vU; nLrkostksa dh] ?kksf"kr vkorZ] Hkqxrku
fd, x, djksa] nkok—r çfrnk; vkSj miHkksx fd, x, buiqV dj çR;; dh
'kq)rk dks vkSj bl vfèkfu;e ;k mlds vèkhu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds micaèkksa
ds vuq:i mlds vuqikyu dks lR;kfir djus ds fy, ijh{kk(

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1345
¼14½ ^^çkfèk—r cSad^^ ls vfHkizk; gksxk] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX; dj
;k fdlh vU; jkf’k dk laxzg.k djus ds fy, ljdkj }kjk çkfèk—r dksbZ cSad
;k fdlh cSad dh dksbZ 'kk[kk(
¼15½ ^^çkfèk—r çfrfufèk^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 116 ds vèkhu ;Fkk fufnZ"V çfrfufèk(
¼16½ ^^cksMZ^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] dsaæh; jktLo cksMZ vfèkfu;e] 1963 ¼1963 dk dsUnzh;
vf/kfu;e 54½] ds vèkhu xfBr dsaæh; mRikn&'kqYd vkSj lhek 'kqYd cksMZ(
¼17½ ^^dkjckj^^ esa fuEufyf[kr lfEefyr gS]&&
¼d½ dksbZ O;kikj] okf.kT;] fofuekZ.k] o`fÙk] O;olk;] çks|e] i|e ;k mlh
çdkj dk dksbZ vU; fØ;kdyki] pkgs og fdlh èkuh; Qk;ns ds fy,
gks ;k u gks (
¼[k½ mi[kaM ¼d½ ds lacaèk esa ;k mlds vkuq"kafxd ;k çklafxd dksbZ fØ;kdyki
;k laO;ogkj (
¼x½ mi[kaM ¼d½ dh ç—fr dk dksbZ fØ;kdyki ;k laO;ogkj] pkgs ,sls
laO;ogkj dk dksbZ ifjek.k] vko`fÙk] fujarjrk ;k fu;ferrk gks ;k u
gks (
¼?k½ dkjckj ds çkjaHk ;k mldh canh ds lacaèk esa iwath eky lfgr eky vkSj
lsokvksa dk çnk; ;k vtZu (
¼³½ fdlh Dyc] laxe] lkslkbVh ;k oSlh gh lqfoèkkvksa ;k Qk;nksa okys fdlh
,sls fudk; }kjk mlds lnL;ksa ds fy, ¼fdlh vfHknku ;k fdlh vU;
çfrQy ds fy,½ dksbZ O;oLFkk (
¼p½ fdUgha ifjljksa esa fdlh çfrQykFkZ O;fDr;ksa dk ços'k (
¼N½ fdlh O;fDr }kjk fdlh ,sls in èkkjd ds :i esa] tks mlus vius
O;kikj] o`fÙk ;k O;olk; ds nkSjku ;k mls vxzlj djus ds fy, Lohdkj
fd;k gS] çnk; dh xbZ lsok,a (
¼t½ fdlh ?kqM+nkSM+ Dyc }kjk] ;ksxeku ds :i esa miyCèk djkbZ xbZ lsok,a
;k ,sls Dyc esa cqd&esdj dh vuqKfIr( vkSj
¼>½ dsaæh; ljdkj] fdlh jkT; ljdkj ;k fdlh LFkkuh; çkfèkdj.k }kjk
fd;k x;k dksbZ ,slk fØ;kdyki ;k laO;ogkj] ftlesa os yksd çkfèkdkfj;ksa
ds :i esa yxs gq, gSa (
¼18½ ^^dkjckj 'kh"kZd^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] fdlh ,sls m|e dk fof'k"V la?kVd] tks ,sls
i`Fkd&i`Fkd~ eky ;k lsokvksa ds ;k ,sls lacafèkr eky ;k lsokvksa ds lewg ds

1346 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
çnk; esa yxk gqvk gS] tks ,sls tksf[ke vkSj çR;kxe ds vè;èkhu gS] tks mu
dkjckj 'kh"kZdkvksa ls fHkUu gS (
O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& bl [kaM ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,] ,sls dkjd] ftu ij ;g voèkkj.k djus ds
fy, fopkj fd;k tkuk pkfg, fd D;k eky ;k lsok,a ftuls lacafèkr gSa] mlesa
fuEufyf[kr lfEefyr gS]&
¼d½ eky ;k lsokvksa dh ç—fr (
¼[k½ mRiknu çfØ;kvksa dh ç—fr (
¼x½ eky ;k lsokvksa ds xzkgdksa ds çdkj ;k oxZ (
¼?k½ eky ds forj.k ;k lsokvksa ds çnk; esa ç;qDr i)fr;ka ( vkSj
¼³½ fofu;ked i;kZoj.k dh ç—fr ¼tgka dgha Hkh ykxw gks½] blds varxZr
cSaddkjh] chek ;k yksd mi;ksfxrk,a gSa (
¼19½ ^^iwath eky^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] ,slk eky] ftudk ewY; buiqV dj çR;; dk
nkok djus okys O;fDr dh ys[kk iqLrdksa esa iwath—r gS vkSj ftudk dkjckj
ds nkSjku ;k mls vxzlj djus esa mi;ksx fd;k tkrk gS ;k mi;ksx fd;k
tkuk vk'kf;r gS (
¼20½ ^^uSfefÙkd djkèks; O;fDr^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] ,slk O;fDr] tks ,sls fdlh djkèks;
jkT; {ks= esa tgka mlds dkjckj dk fuf'pr LFkku ugha gS] çèkku] vfHkdrkZ
;k fdlh vU; gSfl;r esa dkjckj ds nkSjku ;k mls vxzlj djus esa ;nk dnk
,sls laO;ogkj djrk gS] ftuesa eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk; varoZfyr
gS (
¼21½ ^^dsaæh; dj^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017
dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] dh èkkjk 9 ds vèkhu mn~x`ghr dsaæh; eky vkSj
lsok dj(
¼22½ ^^midj^^ dk ogh vFkZ gksxk] tks bls eky vkSj lsok dj ¼jkT;ksa dks çfrdj½
vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 15½] esa fn;k x;k gS (
¼23½ ^^pkVZMZ ,dkmaVsaV^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] pkVZMZ ,dkmaVsaV vfèkfu;e] 1949 ¼1949
dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 38½ dh èkkjk 2 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds [kaM ¼[k½ esa ;FkkifjHkkf"kr
pkVZMZ ,dkmaVsaV(
¼24½ ^^vk;qDr^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 3 ds vèkhu fu;qDr jkT; dj vk;qDr vkSj
blesa èkkjk 3 ds vèkhu fu;qDr jkT; dj dk çèkku vk;qDr vkSj eq[; vk;qDr
Hkh lfEefyr gSa (
¼25½ ^^cksMZ esa vk;qDr^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017
¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] dh èkkjk 168 esa fufnZ"V vk;qDr (

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1347
¼26½ ^^lkekU;^^ iksVZy^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 146 esa fufnZ"V lkekU; eky vkSj lsok
dj bySDVªkfud iksVZy (
¼27½ ^^lkekU; dk;Z fnol^^ ls vfHkizk; gksxk] yxkrkj ,sls fnu] ftUgsa dsaæh; ljdkj
;k gfj;k.kk ljdkj }kjk jktif=r NqV~Vh ds :i esa ?kksf"kr ugha fd;k x;k
gS (
¼28½ ^^daiuh lfpo^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] daiuh lfpo vfèkfu;e] 1980 ¼1980 dk dsUnzh;
vf/kfu;e 56½ dh èkkjk 2 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds [kaM ¼x½ esa ;FkkifjHkkf"kr daiuh
lfpo(
¼29½ ^^l{ke çkfèkdkjh^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] ,slk çkfèkdkjh] ftls ljdkj }kjk vfèklwfpr
fd;k tk, (
¼30½ ^^la;qDr çnk;^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] fdlh djkèks; O;fDr }kjk fdlh çkfIrdrkZ dks
fd;k x;k dksbZ ,slk çnk;] tks eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds nks ;k vfèkd
djkèks; çnk;ksa ls feydj cuk gS ;k mudk dksbZ leqPp; gS] ftUgsaa dkjckj
ds lkèkkj.k vuqØe esa ,d nwljs ds lkFk la;kstu esa çk—frd :i ls ckaèkk
x;k gS vkSj çnk; fd;k x;k gS] ftuesa ,d ewy çnk; gS (
mnkgj.k%& mnkgj.k%& mnkgj.k%& tgka eky dk iSd vkSj ifjogu chek ds lkFk fd;k tkrk gS] ogka eky dk] mnkgj.k%& mnkgj.k%&
iSfdax lkexzh dk] ifjogu dk vkSj chek dk çnk; la;qDr çnk; gksxk vkSj
eky dk çnk; eq[; çnk; gksxkA
¼31½ eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds lacaèk esa ^çfrQy^ esa fuEufyf[kr Hkh
lfEefyr gaS]&
¼d½ çkfIrdrkZ }kjk ;k fdlh vU; O;fDr }kjk] eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa
ds çnk; ds lacaèk esa] muds çR;q~Ùkj esa ;k muds mRçsj.k ds fy,] pkgs
èku ds :i esa ;k vU;Fkk fd;k x;k ;k fd;k tkus okyk dksbZ Hkqxrku]
fdarq blesa dsaæh; ljdkj ;k fdlh jkT; ljdkj }kjk nh xbZ dksbZ
lgkf;dh ¼lCkflfM½ lfEefyr ugha gksxh (
¼[k½ çkfIrdrkZ }kjk ;k fdlh vU; O;fDr }kjk] eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa
ds çnk; ds lacaèk esa] muds çR;qÙkj esa ;k muds mRçsj.k ds fy, pkgs]
fdlh dk;Z ;k la;fer jgus dk èkuh; ewY;] fdarq blesa dsaæh; ljdkj
;k fdlh jkT; ljdkj }kjk nh xbZ dksbZ lgkf;dh ¼lCkflfM½ lfEefyr
ugha gksxh%
ijarq eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds lacaèk esa fn, x, fu{ksi dks
,sls çnk; ds fy, fd, x, Hkqxrku ds :i esa rc rd ugha le>k tk,xk]
tc rd çnk;drkZ ,sls fu{ksi dk] mDr çnk; ds fy, çfrQy ds :i esa
mi;kstu u djs (

1348 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼32½ ^^eky dk fujarj çnk;^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] eky dk ,slk çnk;] tks fdlh lafonk
ds vèkhu rkj] dscy] ikbiykbu ;k vU; ufydk ds ekè;e ls ;k vU;Fkk]
fujarj :i ls ;k vkorÊ vkèkkj ij miyCèk djk;k tk, ;k miyCèk djkus
ds fy, djkj ik;k tk, vkSj ftlds fy, fu;fer ;k vkofèkd vkèkkj ij
çnk;drkZ] çkfIrdrkZ ds fy, chtd cukrk gS vkSj blesas ,sls eky] tks ljdkj]
,slh 'krksZa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tks og vfèklwpuk }kjk] fofufnZ"V djs] dk çnk;
Hkh lfEefyr gS (
¼33½ ^^lsokvksa dk fujarj çnk;^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] lsokvksa dk ,slk çnk;] tks fdlh
lafonk ds vèkhu vkofèkd Hkqxrku dh ckè;rkvksa ds lkFk rhu ekl ls vfèkd
dh vofèk ds fy, fujarj :i ls ;k vkorÊ vkèkkj ij miyCèk djk;k tk,
;k miyCèk djkus ds fy, djkj ik;k tk, vkSj blesa ,slh lsokvksa dk] tks
ljdkj] ,slh 'krksZa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tks og vfèklwpuk }kjk] fofufnZ"V djs]
çnk; Hkh lfEefyr gS(
¼34½ ^^çog.k^^ esa dksbZ ty;ku] ok;q;ku vkSj ;ku Hkh lfEefyr gS (
¼35½ ^^ykxr ys[kkdkj^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] ykxr vkSj ladeZ ys[kkiky vfèkfu;e]
1959 ¼1959 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 23½ dh èkkjk 2 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds [kaM
¼x½ esa ;FkkifjHkkf"kr dksbZ ykxr ys[kkdkj (
¼36½ ^^ifj"kn~^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] lafoèkku ds vuqPNsn 279d ds vèkhu LFkkfir eky
vkSj lsok dj ifj"kn~(
¼37½ ^^tek i=^^ ls vfHkizk; gS èkkjk 34 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fdlh

¼38½ ^^ukes uksV^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 34 dh mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu fdlh

¼39½ ^^le>k x;k fu;kZr^^ ls vfHkizk; gS eky dk ,slk çnk;] ftls èkkjk 147 ds
vèkhu vfèklwfpr fd;k tk, (
¼40½ ^^inkfHkfgr çkfèkdkjh^^ ls vfHkizk; gS ,slk çkfèkdkjh] ftls vk;qDr }kjk vfèklwfpr
fd;k tk, (
¼41½ ^^nLrkost^^ esas fdlh çdkj dk fyf[kr ;k eqfær vfHkys[k rFkk lwpuk çkS|ksfxdh
vfèkfu;e] 2000 ¼2000 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 21½ dh èkkjk 2 ds [kaM ¼u½ esa
;FkkifjHkkf"kr bySDVªkfud vfHkys[k Hkh lfEefyr gS (
¼42½ Hkkjr esa fofufeZr vkSj fu;kZr fd, x, fdlh eky ds lacaèk esa ^^pqaxh okilh^^
ls vfHkizk; gS] ,sls eky ds fofuekZ.k esa ç;qDr fdlh vk;kfrr fuos'k ij ;k
fdlh ?kjsyw fuos'kksa ;k buiqV lsokvksa ij çHkk;Z 'kqYd] dj ;k midj dk
fjcsV(

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1349
¼43½ ^^bysDVªksfud udn [kkrk^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 49 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V
bysDVªkfud udn [kkrk (
¼44½ ^^bysDVªksfud okf.kT;^^ ls vfHkizk; gS fMftVy ;k bysDVªksfud usVodZ ds
ekè;e ls fMftVy mRikn lfgr eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk;(
¼45½ ^^bysDVªksfud okf.kT; çpkyd^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] ,slk dksbZ O;fDr] tks bysDVªksfud
okf.kT; ds fy, fMftVy ;k bysDVªksfud lqfoèkk ;k IysVQkeZ ij LokfeRo
j[krk gks] mldk çpkyu ;k çcaèk djrk gks (
¼46½ ^^bysDVªksfud tek [kkrk^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 49 dh mièkkjk ¼2½ esa fufnZ"V
bysDVªksfud tek [kkrk(
¼47½ ^^NwVçkIr çnk;^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] ,sls fdlh eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk;]
ftldh èkkjk 11 ;k ,dh—r eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk
dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 13½] dh èkkjk 6 ds vèkhu] dj dh nj 'kwU; gks ;k ftls
dj ls iwjh NwV nh tk ldrh gS vkSj blesa xSj&djk/ks; iznk; Hkh lfEefyr
gS(
¼48½ ^^fo|eku fofèk^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ij 'kqYd ;k dj ds
mn~xzg.k vkSj laxzg.k ls lacafèkr dksbZ ,slh fofèk] vfèklwpuk] vkns'k] fu;e
;k fofu;e] tks bl vfèkfu;e ds çkjaHk ls igys ,slh fofèk] vfèklwpuk] vkns'k]
fu;e ;k fofu;e cukus dh 'kfä j[kus okys foèkkue.My ;k fdlh çkfèkdkjh
;k O;fDr }kjk ikfjr fd;k x;k gS ;k cuk;k x;k gS (
¼49½ **dqVqac^* ls vfHkizk; gS]&
(i) O;fDr dk ifr ;k iRuh vkSj cPps ( vkSj
(ii) O;fDr ds ekrk&firk] nknk&nknh] HkkbZ vkSj cgu] ;fn os iw.kZ :i ls
;k eq[; :i ls mDr O;fDr ij vkfJr gSa (
¼50½ ^^fu;r LFkkiu^ ls vfHkizk; gS ¼dkjckj ds 
,slk LFkku] ftldh viuh Lo;a dh vko';drkvksa ds fy, lsokvksa ds çnk;
;k lsok,a çkIr djus vkSj muds mi;ksx ds fy, ekuo vkSj rduhdh lalkèkuksa
ds fuca/kukuqlkj vkSj LFkk;hRo mi;qDr lajpuk dh Ik;kZIr ek=k }kjk fof’k"Vrk
crkbZ xbZ gS (
¼51½ ^^fufèk^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 57 ds vèkhu LFkkfir miHkksäk dY;k.k fufèk (
¼52½ ^^eky^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] /ku vkSj çfrHkwfr;ksa ls fHkUu çR;sd çdkj dh py
laifÙk] fdarq blesa vuq;ksT; nkos] mxrh Qlysa] Hkwfe ls tqM+h gqbZ ;k mlds
Hkkx:i cuus okyh ,slh ?kkl vkSj oLrq,a lfEEkfyr gSa ftldk çnk; ls iwoZ
;k çnk; dh lafonk ds vèkhu i`Fkd~ fd, tkus dk djkj fd;k x;k gS (

1350 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼53½ ^^ljdkj^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] gfj;k.kk jkT; dh ljdkj (
¼54½ ^^eky vkSj lsok dj ¼jkT;ksa dks çfrdj½ vfèkfu;e** ls vfHkizk; gS] eky
vkSj lsok dj ¼jkT;ksa dks çfrdj½ vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh;
vf/kfu;e 15½] (
¼55½ ^^eky vkSj lsok dj O;olk;h** ls vfHkizk; gS] ,slk O;fDr] ftls èkkjk 48 ds
vèkhu ,sls O;olk;h ds :i esa dk;Z djus ds fy, vuqeksfnr fd;k x;k gS(
¼56½ ^^Hkkjr^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] lafoèkku ds vuqPNsn 1 esa ;FkkfufnZ"V Hkkjr dk jkT;{ks=]
jkT;{ks=h; lkxj&[kaM] egk}hih; eXurV Hkwfe] vuU; vkfFkZd {ks= vkSj vU;
lkeqfæd {ks= vfèkfu;e] 1976 ¼1976 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 80½] esa ;FkkfufnZ"V
,sls lkxj&[kaM] egk}hih; eXurV Hkwfe] vuU; vkfFkZd {ks= vkSj fdlh vU;
lkeqfæd {ks= ds uhps dk leqnz ry vkSj voe`nk vkSj mlds jkT;{ks= vkSj
jkT;{ks=h; lkxj&[kaMksa ds Åij dk vkdk'kh {ks=(
¼57½ ^^,dh—r eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] ,dh—r eky vkSj
lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 13½] (
¼58½ ^^,dh—r dj^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] ,dh—r eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017
¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 13½] ds vèkhu mn~x`ghr ,dh—r eky vkSj
lsok dj (
¼59½ ^^fuos'k^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] dkjckj ds nkSjku ;k mls vxzlj djus esa fdlh
çnk;drkZ }kjk mi;ksx fd, x, ;k mi;ksx fd, tkus ds fy, vk'kf;r iwath
eky ls fHkUu dksbZ eky (
¼60½ ^^buiqV lsok^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] dkjckj ds nkSjku ;k mls vxzlj djus esa fdlh
çnk;drkZ }kjk mi;ksx dh xbZ ;k mi;ksx fd, tkus ds fy, vk'kf;r dksbZ
lsok (
¼61½ ^^buiqV lsok forjd^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds ,sls çnk;drkZ
dk dk;kZy;] tks buiqV lsokvksa dh çkfIr ds eís èkkjk 31 ds vèkhu tkjh dj
chtd çkIr djrk gS vkSj mDr dk;kZy; ds leku LFkk;h [kkrk la[;k okys
djkèks; eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds ,sls çnk;drkZ dks mDr lsokvksa ij
Hkqxrku dsaæh; dj] jkT; dj] ,dh—r dj ;k la?k jkT; {ks= lacaèkh dj ds
çR;; dk forj.k djus ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, dksbZ fofgr nLrkost tkjh djrk
gS(
¼62½ fdlh 
lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds fdlh çnk; ij çHkkfjr dsaæh; dj] jkT; dj] ,dh—r
dj ;k la?k jkT;{ks= lacaèkh dj vkSj bless fuEufyf[kr Hkh lfEefyr gSa]&
¼d½ eky ds vk;kr ij çHkkfjr ,dh—r eky vkSj lsok dj (

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1351
¼[k½ èkkjk 9 dh mièkkjk ¼3½ vkSj ¼4½ ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX; dj(
¼x½ ,dh—r eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh;
vf/kfu;e 13½] dh èkkjk 5 dh mièkkjk ¼3½ vkSj ¼4½ ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu
Hkqxrku;ksX; dj ( ;k
¼?k½ dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e
12½] dh èkkjk 9 dh mièkkjk ¼3½ vkSj ¼4½ ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX;
dj]
fdarq blesa mn~xzg.k ds ç'keu ds vèkhu Hkqxrku dj lfEefyr ugha gS (
¼63½ ^^buiqV dj çR;;^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] buiqV dj dk çR;; (
¼64½ ^^eky dk var%jkT;h; çnk;** dk ogh vFkZ gksxk] tks bls ,dh—r eky vkSj
lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 13½] dh èkkjk 8 esa
fn;k x;k gS (
¼65½ ^^lsokvksa dk var%jkT;h; çnk;** dk ogh vFkZ gksxk] tks bls ,dh—r eky vkSj
lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 13½] dh èkkjk 8 esa
fn;k x;k gS (
¼66½ ^^chtd^^ ;k ^^dj chtd^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 31 esa fufnZ"V dj chtd (
¼67½ fdlh O;fDr ds lacaèk esa ^^vkod çnk;^^ ls vfHkizk; gksxk] Ø;] vtZu ;k
fdlh vU; lkèku }kjk çfrQy ds lkFk ;k mlds fcuk eky ;k lsokvksa ;k
nksuksa dh çkfIr(
¼68½ ^^NqViqV dk;Z^^ ls vfHkizk; gS] fdlh vU; 
fdlh O;fDr }kjk fd;k x;k dksbZ mipkj ;k dh xbZ çfØ;k vkSj **NqViqV
dk;Z djus okys O;fDr** vfHkO;fDr dk rnuqlkj vFkZ yxk;k tk,xk (
¼69½ ^^LFkkuh; çkfèkdkjh^^ ls fuEu vfHkizk; gS]&
¼d½ lafoèkku ds vuqPNsn 243 ds [kaM ¼?k½ esa ;Fkk ifjHkkf"kr dksbZ iapk;r(
¼[k½ lafoèkku ds vuqPNsn 243r ds [kaM ¼³½ esa ;Fkk ifjHkkf"kr dksbZ uxjikfydk(
¼x½ dksbZ uxjikfydk lfefr] dksbZ ftyk ifj"kn~] dksbZ ftyk cksMZ vkSj dksbZ
vU; çkfèkdkjh] tks uxjikfydk ;k LFkkuh; fufèk ds fu;a=.k ;k çcaèk
djus dk dkuwuh :i ls gdnkj gS ;k ftls dsaæh; ljdkj ;k fdlh
jkT; ljdkj }kjk ,sls uxjikfydk ;k LFkkuh; fufèk dk fu;a=.k ;k
çcaèk lkSaik x;k gSA
¼?k½ Nkouh vfèkfu;e] 2006 ¼2006 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 41½ dh èkkjk 3
esa ;Fkk ifjHkkf"kr Nkouh cksMZ (

1352 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼³½ lafoèkku dh NBh vuqlwph ds vèkhu xfBr dksbZ çknsf'kd ifj"kn~ ;k
dksbZ ftyk ifj"kn~ (
¼p½ lafoèkku ds vuqPNsn 371 ds vèkhu xfBr dksbZ fodkl cksMZ ( ;k
¼N½ lafoèkku ds vuqPNsn 371d ds vèkhu xfBr dksbZ çknsf'kd ifj"kn~ (
¼70½ **lsokvksa ds çkfIrdrkZ dk voLFkku** ls vfHkizk; gS]&
¼d½ tgka çnk; dkjckj ds ,sls LFkku ij çkIr fd;k tkrk gS] ftlds fy,

voLFkku(
¼[k½ tgka çnk; dkjckj ds ml LFkku ls fHkUu fdlh vU; ,sls LFkku ij
çkIr fd;k tkrk gS ftlds fy, 
¼vU;= fu;r LFkkiu½] ogka ,sls fu;r LFkkiu dk voLFkku(
¼x½ tgka çnk; ,d ls vfèkd LFkkiuksa ij çkIr fd;k tkrk gS] pkgs og
dkjckj dk LFkku gks ;k fu;r LFkkiu] ogka çnk; dh çkfIr ls lokZfèkd
lhèks lacafèkr LFkkiu dk voLFkku (
¼?k½ ,sls LFkkuksa ds vHkko esa] çkfIrdrkZ ds çkf;d fuokl LFkku dk voLFkku(
¼71½ **lsokvksa ds çnk;drkZ dk voLFkku** ls vfHkizk; gS]&
¼d½ tgka çnk; dkjckj ds ,sls LFkku ls fd;k tkrk gS] ftlds fy, 
vfHkçkIr fd;k x;k gS] ogka dkjckj ds ,sls LFkku dk voLFkku (
¼[k½ tgka çnk; dkjckj ds ml LFkku ls fHkUu fdlh vU; ,sls LFkku ls
fd;k tkrk gS] ftlds fy, 
fu;r LFkkiu½] ogka ,sls fu;r LFkkiu dk voLFkku (
¼x½ tgka çnk; ,d ls vfèkd LFkkiuksa ls fd;k tkrk gS] pkgs og dkjckj
dk LFkku gks ;k fu;r LFkkiu gS] ogka çnk; dh O;oLFkk ls lokZfèkd
lhèks lacafèkr LFkkiu dk voLFkku ( vkSj
¼?k½ ,sls LFkkuksa ds vHkko esa] çnk;drkZ ds çkf;d fuokl LFkku dk voLFkku(
¼72½ **fofuekZ.k** ls vfHkizk; gS] dPph lkexzh ;k buiqV dk fdlh jhfr esa çlaLdj.k]
ftlds ifj.kkeLo:i lqfHkUu uke] Lo:i vkSj mi;ksx okys ,d u, mRikn
dk vkfoHkkZo gksrk gS vkSj **fofuekZrk** in dk rnuqlkj vFkZ yxk;k tk,xk(
¼73½ **cktkj ewY;** ls vfHkizk; gksxk] ,slh iwjh jkf'k] ftldh çnk; ds çkfIrdrkZ
ls] oSls gh çdkj vkSj DokfyVh ds eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dks] mlh le;
ij ;k mlds vklikl vkSj tgka çkfIrdrkZ vkSj çnk;drkZ lacafèkr ugha gSa]
ogka mlh okf.kfT;d Lrj ij vfHkçkIr djus ds fy,] Hkqxrku fd, tkus dh
vis{kk gksrh gS (

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1353
¼74½ **fefJr çnk;** ls vfHkizk; gS] fdlh djkèks; O;fDr }kjk] fdlh ,dy dher
ds fy, eky ;k lsokvksa dk ;k mlds fdlh ,sls leqPp; dk] tks ijLij
lg;kstu ls cuk;k x;k gS] nks ;k vfèkd i`Fkd&i`Fkd çnk;] tgka ,slk çnk;
ls dksbZ la;qDr çnk; xfBr ugha gksrk gSA
mnkgj.k % mnkgj.k % mnkgj.k %fMCckcan [kk| inkFkksZa] feBkbZ] pkdysV] dsd] esok] okfrr is; mnkgj.k % mnkgj.k %
vkSj Qy ds twl dks feykdj cuk, x, iSdst çnk;] tc og fdlh ,dy
dher ds fy, fd;k x;k gS] rks og çnk; fefJr çnk; gksxkA bu enksa esa
ls çR;sd en dk vyx&vyx Hkh çnk; fd;k tk ldrk gS vkSj og fdlh
vU; ij fuHkZj ugha gksxkA ;fn bu enksa dk vyx&vyx çnk; fd;k tkrk
gS rks og fefJr çnk; ugha gksxk(
¼75½ **èku** ls vfHkizk; gS] Hkkjrh; fofèkekU; eqæk ;k dksbZ fons'kh djsalh] pSd]
opui=] fofue; i=] lk[k i=] Mªk¶V] Hkqxrku vkns'k] ;k=h pSd] euh vkMZj]
Mkd ;k bySDVªkfud foçs"k.kkns'k ;k Hkkjrh; fjtoZ cSad }kjk ekU;rkçkIr dksbZ
vU; ys[k i=] tc mldk mi;ksx fdlh ckè;rk ds ifjfuèkkZj.k ds fy, ;k
fdlh vU; vafdr ewY; dh Hkkjrh; fofèkekU; eqæk ls fofue; ds çfrQy
ds :i esa fd;k tkrk gS] fdarq blesa dksbZ ,slh djsalh lfEefyr ugha gksxh]
ftldk viuk eqæk fo"k;d ewY; gS (
¼76½ **eksVj ;ku** dk ogh vFkZ gksxk] tks bls eksVj ;ku vfèkfu;e] 1988 ¼1988
dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 59½] dh èkkjk 2 ds [kaM ¼28½ esa fn;k x;k gS (
¼77½ **vfuoklh djkèks; O;fDr** ls vfHkizk; gS] ,slk O;fDr] tks ;nk dnk] çèkku
;k vfHkdrkZ ds :i esa ;k fdlh vU; gSfl;r esa ,sls laO;ogkj djrk gS ftuesa
eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk; varoZfyr gS] fdarq ftldk Hkkjr esa dkjckj
dk dksbZ fu;r LFkku ;k dksbZ fuokl LFkku ugha gS (
¼78½ **xSj&djkèks; çnk;** ls vfHkizk; gS] eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk ,slk çnk;]
tks bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu ;k ,dh—r eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017
¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 13½] ds vèkhu dj ls mn~xzg.kh; ugha gS (
¼79½ **xSj&djkèks; {ks=** ls vfHkizk; gS] ,slk {ks=] tks djkèks; {ks= ls ckgj gS (
¼80½ **vfèklwpuk** ls vfHkizk; gS] jkti= esa çdkf'kr dksbZ vfèklwpuk vkSj **vfèklwfpr
djuk** vkSj **vfèklwfpr** vfHkO;fDr;ksa dk rnuqlkj vFkZ yxk;k tk,xk (
¼81½ **vU; jkT; {ks=** esa ,sls jkT; {ks=ksa ls fHkUu jkT; {ks= lfEefyr gSa] tks fdlh
jkT; esa lekfo"V gSa vkSj tks [kaM ¼114½ ds mi[kaM ¼d½ ls mi[kaM ¼³½ esa
fufnZ"V gSa (
¼82½ fdlh djkèks; O;fDr ds lacaèk esa **vkmViqV dj** ls vfHkizk; gS] mlds }kjk
;k mlds vfHkdrkZ }kjk fd;k x;k eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds djk/ks; çnk;

1354 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
ij bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu çHkk;Z dj] fdarq blesa foijhr çHkkj ds vkèkkj
ij mlds }kjk Hkqxrku;ksX; dj dks vioftZr fd;k x;k gS (
¼83½ fdlh djkèks; O;fDr ds lacaèk esa **tkod çnk;** ls vfHkizk; gS] fdlh O;fDr
}kjk dkjckj ds nkSjku ;k mls vxzlj djus esa fd;k x;k ;k fd, tkus ds
fy, djkj ik;k x;k eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk] foØ;] varj.k] oLrq&fofue;]
fofue;] vuqKfIr] HkkVd] iV~Vk ;k O;;u ;k fdlh Hkh vU; <ax ls fd;k
x;k iznk; (
¼84½ **O;fDr** esa fuEufyf[kr 'kkfey gSa]&
¼d½ dksbZ O;f"V (
¼[k½ dksbZ fganw vfoHkDr dqVqac (
¼x½ dksbZ daiuh (
¼?k½ dksbZ QeZ (
¼³½ dksbZ lhfer nkf;Ro Hkkxhnkjh (
¼p½ dksbZ O;fDr laxe ;k O;f"V fudk;] pkgs Hkkjr esa ;k Hkkjr ds ckgj
fuxfer gks ;k u gks (
¼N½ fdlh dsaæh; vfèkfu;e] jkT; vfèkfu;e ;k çkarh; vfèkfu;e }kjk ;k
mlds vèkhu LFkkfir dksbZ fuxe ;k daiuh vfèkfu;e] 2013 ¼2013 dk
dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 18½] dh èkkjk 2 ds [kaM ¼45½ esa ;FkkifjHkkf"kr dksbZ
ljdkjh daiuh(
¼t½ Hkkjr ds ckgj fdlh ns'k dh fofèk }kjk ;k mlds vèkhu fuxfer dksbZ
fuxfer fudk; (
¼>½ lgdkjh lkslkbfV;ksa ls lacafèkr fdlh fofèk ds vèkhu 
lgdkjh lkslkbVh (
¼¥½ dksbZ LFkkuh; çkfèkdkjh (
¼V½ dsaæh; ljdkj ;k dksbZ jkT; ljdkj (
¼B½ lkslkbVh 
21½] ds vèkhu ;Fkk ifjHkkf"kr lkslkbVh (
¼M½ U;kl ( vkSj
¼<½ çR;sd ,slk —f=e fofèkd O;fDr] tks mijksDr fdlh esa ugha vkrk gS(

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1355
¼85½ **dkjckj ds LFkku** esa fuEufyf[kr 'kkfey gSa]&
¼d½ og LFkku] tgka ls lkekU; rkSj ls dkjckj fd;k tkrk gS vkSj blesa dksbZ
HkkaMkxkj] xksnke ;k dksbZ vU; LFkku Hkh 'kkfey gS] tgka djkèks; O;fDr
vius eky dk HkaMkj.k djrk gS] eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk;
djrk gS ;k çkIr djrk gS ( ;k
¼[k½ og LFkku] tgka djkèks; O;fDr viuh ys[kk iqLrdksa dks vuqjf{kr j[krk
gS ( ;k
¼x½ og LFkku] tgka dksbZ djkèks; O;fDr] fdlh vfHkdrkZ ds ekè;e ls] pkgs
og fdlh uke ls Kkr gks] dkjckj esa yxk gqvk gS (
¼86½ **çnk; dk LFkku** ls vfHkizk; gS] ,dh—r eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017
¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 13½] ds vè;k; V esa ;FkkfufnZ"V çnk; dk LFkku(
¼87½ **fofgr** ls vfHkizk; gS] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu
cuk, x, fu;eksa }kjk fofgr (
¼88½ **çèkku** ls vfHkizk; gS] ,slk O;fDr ftldh vksj ls dksbZ vfHkdrkZ eky ;k
lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk; ;k çkfIr dk dkjckj djrk gS (
¼89½ **dkjckj dk eq[; LFkku** ls vfHkizk; gS] 
ds eq[; LFkku ds :i esa fofufnZ"V dkjckj dk LFkku (
¼90½ **eq[; çnk;** ls vfHkizk; gS] ,sls eky ;k lsokvksa dk çnk;] tks fdlh la;qDr
çnk; dk çcy rRo gS vkSj ftlds fy, ml la;qDr çnk; ds Hkkx:i dksbZ
vU; çnk; vkuq"kafxd gS (
¼91½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu ikyu fd, tkus okys fdlh —R; ds lacaèk esa **leqfpr
vfèkdkjh** ls vfHkizk; gS] jkT; dj dk vk;qDr ;k ,slk vfèkdkjh] ftls vk;qDr
}kjk og —R; lkSaik x;k gS (
¼92½ **frekgh** ls vfHkizk; gksxk] ,slh vofèk] ftlesa fdlh dySaMj o"kZ ds ekpZ]
twu] flracj vkSj fnlacj ds vafre fnu dks lekIr gksus okys rhu ØeorÊ
dySaMj ekl lekfo"V gksa (
¼93½ eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds **çkfIrdrkZ** ls vfHkizk; gS]&
¼d½ tgka eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds fy, dksbZ çfrQy Hkqxrku;ksX;
gS] ogka ,slk O;fDr] tks ml çfrQy ds Hkqxrku dk nk;h gS (
¼[k½ tgka eky ds çnk; ds fy, dksbZ çfrQy Hkqxrku;ksX; ugha gS] ogka ,slk
O;fDr] ftldks eky çnÙk fd;k x;k gS ;k miyCèk djk;k x;k gS ;k
ftls eky dk dCtk ;k mi;ksx ds fy, fn;k x;k gS ;k miyCèk
djk;k x;k gS(

1356 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼x½ tgka fdlh lsok ds çnk; ds fy, çfrQy dk Hkqxrku ugha fd;k x;k
gS] ogka ,slk O;fDr] ftls lsok,a nh tkrh gS]
vkSj fdlh ,sls O;fDr ds çfrfunZs'k dk] ftls çnk; fd;k x;k gS vkSj çnk;
ds çkfIrdrkZ ds çfrfunZs'k ds :i esa vFkZ yxk;k tk,xk vkSj blds çnk; fd,
x, eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds lacaèk esa çkfIrdrkZ dh vksj ls ml :i esa dk;Z
djus okyk dksbZ vfHkdrkZ Hkh 'kkfey gksxk(
¼94½ **

ugha gS (
¼95½ **fofu;e** ls vfHkizk; gS] ljdkj }kjk ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'k ij bl vfèkfu;e
ds vèkhu cuk, x, fofu;e (
¼96½ eky ds lacaèk esa **gVk, tkus** ls vfHkizk; gS]&
¼d½ mlds çnk;drkZ }kjk ;k ,sls çnk;drkZ dh vksj ls dk;Z djus okys
fdlh vU; O;fDr }kjk ifjnku ds fy, eky dk çs"k.k ( ;k
¼[k½ mlds çkfIrdrkZ }kjk ;k ,sls çkfIrdrkZ dh vksj ls dk;Z djus okys
fdlh vU; O;fDr }kjk eky dk laxzg.k (
¼97½ **fooj.kh** ls vfHkizk; gS] bl vfèkfu;e ;k mlds vèkhu cuk, x, fu;eksa
}kjk ;k ds vèkhu fn, tkus ds fy, fofgr ;k mlls vU;Fkk visf{kr dksbZ
fooj.kh (
¼98½ **foijhr çHkkj** ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 9 dh mièkkjk ¼3½ ;k mi/kkjk ¼4½ ds vèkhu
;k ,dhd`r eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e
13½] dh èkkjk 5 dh mièkkjk ¼3½ ;k mi/kkjk ¼4½ ds vèkhu ,sls eky ;k lsokvksa
;k nksuksa ds çnk;drkZ ds ctk; eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çkfIrdrkZ }kjk
dj Hkqxrku dk nkf;Ro (
¼99½ **iqujh{k.k çkfèkdkjh** ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 108 esa ;FkkfufnZ"V fu.kZ; ;k vkns'kksa
ds iqujh{k.k ds fy, fu;qDr ;k çkfèk—r dksbZ çkfèkdkjh (
¼100½ **vuqlwph** ls vfHkizk; gS] bl vfèkfu;e ls layXu vuqlwph (
¼101½ **çfrHkwfr** dk ogh vFkZ gksxk] tks bls çfrHkwfr lafonk ¼fofu;eu½ vfèkfu;e]
1956 ¼1956 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 42½] dh èkkjk 2 ds [kaM ¼t½ esa fn;k x;k
gS (
¼102½ **lsokvksa** ls vfHkizk; gS] eky] èku vkSj çfrHkwfr;ksa ls fHkUu dqN Hkh] fdarq blesa
èku dk mi;ksx ;k udn ;k fdlh vU; <ax ls djsalh ;k vafdr ewY; dk

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1357
fdlh vU; :i] djsalh ;k vafdr ewY; esa mldk ,slk laifjorZu] ftlds fy,
i`Fkd~ çfrQy çHkkfjr gks] ls lacafèkr fØ;kdyki lfEefyr gSa (
¼103½ **jkT;** ls vfHkizk; gS] gfj;k.kk jkT; (
¼104½ **jkT; dj** ls vfHkizk; gS] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu mn~x`ghr dj (
¼105½ eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds lacaèk esa **çnk;drkZ** ls vfHkizk; gksxk] mDr eky
;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk; djus okyk O;fDr vkSj blesa çnk; fd, x,
eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds lacaèk esa ,sls çnk;drkZ dh vksj ls ml :i esa
dk;Z djus okyk dksbZ vfHkdrkZ lfEefyr gksxk (
¼106½ **dj vofèk** ls vfHkizk; gS] ,slh vofèk] ftlds fy, fooj.kh nsus dh vis{kk
gS (
¼107½ **djkèks; O;fDr** ls vfHkizk; gS] dksbZ ,slk O;fDr] tks èkkjk 22 ;k 24 ds vèkhu

¼108½ **djkèks; çnk;** ls vfHkizk; gS] ,sls eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk;] ftl
ij bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj mn~xzg.kh; gS (
¼109½ **djkèks; jkT; {ks=** ls vfHkizk; gS] ,slk jkT;{ks=] ftldks bl vfèkfu;e ds
micaèk ykxw gksrs gSa (
¼110½ **nwj&lapkj lsok** ls vfHkizk; gS] fdlh çdkj dh ,slh lsok] ¼ftlesa bySDVªksfud
esy] ok;l esy] MkVk lfoZl] vkfM;ks VsDLV lfoZl] ohfM;ks VsDLV lfoZl]
jsfM;ks isftax vkSj lsY;qyj eksckby VsyhQksu lsok,a Hkh 'kkfey gSa½ tks mi;ksDrk
dks fdlh ladsr] flXuy] ys[k] vk—fr vkSj /ofu ds fdlh ikjs"k.k ;k xzg.k
djus ;k fdlh çdkj dh vklwpuk ds ekè;e ls rkj] jsfM;ks] –'; ;k vU;
bySDVªkseSXusfVd lkèkuksa }kjk miyCèk djkbZ tkrh gS (
¼111½ **dsUæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e** ls vfHkizk; gS] dsUæh; eky vkSj lsok
dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½ (
¼112½ **jkT; esa vkorZ** ls vfHkizk; gS] fdlh djkèks; O;fDr }kjk fdlh jkT; ds
Hkhrj fd, x, ¼,sls vkod çnk;ksa ds ewY; dks vioftZr djrs gq,] ftl ij
fdlh O;fDr }kjk foijhr çHkkj ds vkèkkj ij dj Hkqxrku;ksX; gS½ lHkh djkèks;
çnk;ksa vkSj NwV çkIr çnk;ksa dk] mDr djkèks; O;fDr }kjk jkT; ls eky ;k
lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds fu;kZr vkSj varjjkfT;d çnk; dk ladfyr ewY;] fdarq
blesa dsaæh; dj] jkT; dj] la?k jkT;{ks= dj] ,dh—r dj vkSj midj
vioftZr gSa (
¼113½ **çkf;d fuokl LFkku** ls vfHkizk; gS]&
¼d½ fdlh O;fDr dh n'kk esa] ,slk LFkku] tgka og lkekU; rkSj ij fuokl
djrk gS (

1358 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼[k½ vU; n'kkvksa esa] ,slk LFkku] tgka O;fDr fuxfer gS ;k vU;Fkk fofèkd
:i ls xfBr gS (
¼114½ **la?k jkT;{ks=** ls vfHkizk; gS]&
¼d½ vaneku vkSj fudksckj }hi (
¼[k½ y{k}hi (
¼x½ nknjk vkSj ukxj gosyh (
¼?k½ neu vkSj nho (
¼³½ paMhx<+ ( vkSj
¼p½ vU; jkT;{ks=]
dk jkT; {ks= (
O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& bl vfèkfu;e ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,] mi[kaM ¼d½ ls ¼p½ esa fofufnZ"V
jkT; {ks= esa ls çR;sd dks ,d i`Fkd~ la?k jkT; {ks= le>k tk,xk(
¼115½ **la?k jkT; {ks= dj** ls vfHkizk; gS] la?k jkT; {ks= eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e]
2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 14½] ds vèkhu mn~x`ghr la?k jkT; {ks=
eky vkSj lsok dj (
¼116½ **la?k jkT; {ks= eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e** ls vfHkizk; gS] la?k jkT; {ks=
eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 14½ (
¼117½ **fofèkekU; fooj.kh** ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 39 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu nh xbZ
dksbZ ,slh fooj.kh] ftl ij Lor% fuèkkZj.k dj dk iw.kZ :i ls Hkqxrku fd;k
x;k gS (
¼118½ **okÅpj** ls vfHkizk; gS] dksbZ ,slh fy[kr] tgka mls eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa
ds çnk; ds fy, çfrQy ds :i esa ;k Hkkfxd çfrQy ds :i esa Lohdkj
djus dh ckè¸krk gS vkSj tgka çnk; fd, tkus okyk eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa
;k muds laHkkoh çnk;drkZvksaa dh igpku ;k rks fy[kr ij gh minf'kZr gS
;k lac) nLrkosthdj.k esa minf'kZr gS] ftlesa ,slh fy[kr ds mi;ksx ds
fucaèku vkSj 'krZsa Hkh 'kkfey gSa (
¼119½ **dk;Z lafonk** ls vfHkizk; gS] tgka ,slh lafonk ds fu"iknu esa] eky ¼pkgs og
eky ;k fdlh vU; :i esa gks½ esa laifÙk dk varj.k varoZfyr gS] fdlh vpy
laifÙk dk fuekZ.k] lfUuekZ.k] jpuk djus] iwjk djus] ifjfuekZ.k] laLFkkiu]
lfTtr djus] lqèkkjus] mikarj.k djus] ejEer djus] vuqj{k.k djus] uohdj.k
djus] ifjorZu djus ;k cukus ds fy, dksbZ lafonk (

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1359
¼120½ mu 'kCnksa vkSj vfHkO;fDr;ksa ds] tks bl vfèkfu;e esa ç;qDr gSa vkSj ifjHkkf"kr
ugha gSa] fdarq ,dh—r eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh;
vf/kfu;e 13½] dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh;
vf/kfu;e 12½] la?k jkT; {ks= eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk
dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 14½] rFkk eky vkSj lsok dj ¼jkT;ksas dks çfrdj½ vfèkfu;e]
2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 15½] esa ifjHkkf"kr gSa] ogh vFkZ gksaxs tks mUgsa
Øe'k% mu vfèkfu;eksa esa fn, x, gSaA

1360 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; II
iz'kklu iz'kklu iz'kklu iz'kklu iz'kklu
bl vf/kfu;e ds 3 - 3 - 3 - 3 - 3 - ljdkj] vfèklwpuk }kjk] bl vfèkfu;e ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,] fuEufyf[kr oxksZa ds
v/khu vf/kdkjhA vfèkdkfj;ksa dks fu;qDr djsxh] vFkkZr~]&
¼d½ jkT; dj çèkku vk;qDr ;k eq[; vk;qDr ;k vk;qDr (
¼[k½ jkT; dj fo'ks"k vk;qDr (
¼x½ jkT; dj vij vk;qDr (
¼?k½ jkT; dj la;qDr vk;qDr (
¼³½ jkT; dj mik;qDr (
¼p½ jkT; dj lgk;d vk;qDr (
¼N½ jkT; dj vkcdkjh vkSj djkèkku vfèkdkjh(
¼t½ jkT; dj lgk;d vkcdkjh vkSj djkèkku vfèkdkjh( vkSj
¼>½ vfèkdkfj;ksa dk dksbZ vU; oxZ] tks og Bhd le>s %
ijarq gfj;k.kk ewY; ofèkZr dj vfèkfu;e] 2003 ¼2003 dk vf/kfu;e 6½] ds vèkhu
fu;qDr vfèkdkfj;ksa dks bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu fu;qDr fd, x, vfèkdkfj;ksa ds
:i esa le>k tk,xkA
vf/kdkfj;ksa dh 4 - 4 - 4 - 4 - 4 - ¼1½ ljdkj] èkkjk 3 ds vèkhu ;Fkkvfèklwfpr vfèkdkfj;ksa ds vfrfjDr ,sls O;fDr;ksa
fu;qfDrA dh fu;qfDr dj ldrh gS] ftUgsa og bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu vfèkdkfj;ksa ds :i esa Bhd
le>sA
¼2½ vk;qDr dks lEiw.kZ jkT; ij vfèkdkfjrk gksxh] fo'ks"k vk;qDr vkSj vij vk;qDr
dks mUgsa leuqnsf'kr leLr ;k muesa ls fdUgha —R;ksa ds lacaèk esa lEiw.kZ jkT; ij vfèkdkfjrk
gksxh ;k tgka jkT; ljdkj ,slk fufnZ"V djs] mlds fdlh LFkkuh; {ks= ij vfèkdkfjrk gksxh
vkSj vU; leLr vfèkdkfj;ksa dks] ,slh 'krksZa ds vè;èkhu tks fofufnZ"V dh tk;sa] lEiw.kZ jkT;
ij ;k ,sls LFkkuh; {ks=ksa ij] tks vk;qDr vkns'k }kjk fufnZ"V djs] vfèkdkfjrk gksxhA
vfèkdkfj;ksa dh 5 - 5 - 5 - 5 - 5 - ¼1½ jkT; dj vfèkdkjh] ,slh 'krksZa vkSj ifjlhekvksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tks vk;qDr
'kfDr;kaA vfèkjksfir djs] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu mls çnÙk 'kfDr;ksa dk ç;ksx vkSj ml ij vfèkjksfir
drZO;ksas dk fuoZgu dj ldrk gSA
¼2½ jkT; dj vfèkdkjh] fdlh vU; ,sls jkT; dj vfèkdkjh dks] tks mlds vèkhuLFk
gS] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu çnÙk 'kfDr;ksa dk ç;ksx vkSj vfèkjksfir drZO;ksa dk fuoZgu dj
ldrk gSA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1361
¼3½ vk;qDr] ,slh 'krksZa vkSj ifjlhekvksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tks mlds }kjk bl
fufeRr fofufnZ"V dh tk,] viuh 'kfDr;ksa dk] mlds vèkhuLFk fdlh vU; vfèkdkjh dks
çR;k;ksftr dj ldrk gSA
¼4½ bl èkkjk esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] dksbZ vihy çkfèkdkjh] fdlh
vU; jkT; dj vfèkdkjh dks çnÙk 'kfDr;ksa dk ç;ksx vkSj ml ij vfèkjksfir drZO;ksa dk
fuoZgu ugha djsxkA
6 - 6 - 6 - 6 - 6 - ¼1½ bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèkksa ij çfrdwy çHkko Mkys fcuk] dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dfri; ifjfLFkfr;ksa
dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] ds vèkhu fu;qDr vfèkdkjh] bl esa dsaæh; dj
vfèkfu;e ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,] ,slh 'krksZa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tks ljdkj] vfèklwpuk }kjk] vfèkdkfj;ksa dk
leqfpr çkfèkdkjh ds
ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij fofufnZ"V djsxh] leqfpr vfèkdkjh ds :i esa çkfèk—r fd, x, :i esa çkfèkdj.kA
gSaA
¼2½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu tkjh vfèklwpuk esa fofufnZ"V 'krksZa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,]&
¼d½ tgka dksbZ leqfpr vfèkdkjh] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dksbZ vkns'k tkjh
djrk gS] ogka og dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017
dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] ds vèkhu] dsaæh; dj dh vfèkdkfjrk j[kus
okys vfèkdkjh dh lwpuk ds vèkhu] mDr vfèkfu;e }kjk ;Fkk
çkfèk—r :i esa Hkh vkns'k ns ldrk gS(
¼[k½ tgka dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh;
vf/kfu;e 12½] ds vèkhu dksbZ leqfpr vfèkdkjh fdlh fo"k;&oLrq ij
dksbZ dk;Zokfg;ka vkjEHk djrk gS] ogka bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu leqfpr
vfèkdkjh }kjk mlh fo"k; oLrq ij dksbZ dk;Zokfg;ka vkjEHk ugha dh
tk,axhA
¼3½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fu;qDr fdlh vfèkdkjh }kjk ikfjr fdlh vkns'k dh
ifj'kqf)] vihy vkSj iqujh{k.k] tgka&dgha ykxw gksa] ds fy, dksbZ dk;Zokgh dsaæh; eky vkSj
lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] ds vèkhu fu;qDr fdlh vfèkdkjh
ds le{k ugha gksxhA

1362 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; III
dj dk mn~xzg.k vkSj laxzg.k dj dk mn~xzg.k vkSj laxzg.k dj dk mn~xzg.k vkSj laxzg.k dj dk mn~xzg.k vkSj laxzg.k dj dk mn~xzg.k vkSj laxzg.k
çnk; dh ifjfèkA 7 - 7 - 7 - 7 - 7 - ¼1½ bl vfèkfu;e ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,] **çnk;** vfHkO;fDr esa fuEufyf[kr lfEefyr
gSa]&
¼d½ fdlh O;fDr }kjk dkjckj ds nkSjku ;k mls vxzlj djus esa fdlh
çfrQy ds fy, fd;k x;k ;k fd, tkus ds fy, djkj ik;k x;k
foØ;] varj.k] oLrq&fofue;] fofue;] vuqKfIr] HkkVd] iV~Vk ;k O;;u
tSls eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds lHkh ç:i (
¼[k½ fdlh çfrQy ds fy, lsokvksa dk vk;kr] pkgs og dkjckj ds nkSjku
;k mls vxzlj djus ds fy, gks ;k ugha (
¼x½ fdlh çfrQy ds fcuk fd, x, ;k fd, tkus ds fy, djkj ik, x,
vuqlwph 1 esa fofufnZ"V fØ;kdyki ( vkSj
¼?k½ eky ds çnk; ;k lsokvksa ds çnk; ds :i esa ekus x, vuqlwph II esa
;Fkk fofufnZ"V fØ;kdykiA
¼2½ mièkkjk ¼1½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh]&
¼d½ vuqlwph III esa fofufnZ"V fØ;kdykiksa ;k laO;ogkjksa dks ( ;k
¼[k½ dsaæh; ljdkj] fdlh jkT; ljdkj ;k fdlh LFkkuh; çkfèkdkjh }kjk
yksd çkfèkdkfj;ksa ds :i esa fd, x, ,sls fØ;kdykiksa ;k laO;ogkjksa
dks] ftUgsa ljdkj }kjk ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] vfèklwfpr fd;k tk,]
u rks eky ds çnk; ds :i esa vkSj u gh lsokvksa ds çnk; ds :i esa ekuk tk,xkA
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼1½ vkSj ¼2½ ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] ljdkj] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa
ij] vfèklwpuk }kjk] ,sls laO;ogkjksa dks fofufnZ"V dj ldrh gS] ftUgsa]&
¼d½ eky ds çnk; ds :i esa rFkk u fd lsokvksa ds çnk; ds :i esa ( ;k
¼[k½ lsokvksa ds çnk; ds :i esa rFkk u fd eky ds çnk; ds :i esa] ekuk
tk,xkA
la;qDr vkSj fefJr 8 - 8 - 8 - 8 - 8 - fdlh la;qDr ;k fefJr çnk; ij dj ds nkf;Ro dk voèkkj.k fuEufyf[kr jhfr
çnk;ksa ij dj dk esas fd;k tk,xk] vFkkZr~&
nkf;RoA
¼d½ nks ;k vfèkd çnk;ksa dks lekfo"V djrs gq, fdlh la;qDr çnk; dks] ftlesa
ls ,d eq[; iznk; gS] ,sls eq[; çnk; dh vkiwfrZ ds :i esa ekuk tk,xk(
vkSj
¼[k½ nks ;k vfèkd çnk;ksa dks lekfo"V djrs gq, fefJr çnk; dks ml fof'k"V
çnk; dh vkiwfrZ ds :i esa ekuk tk,xk] ftlds dj dh nj mPpre gSA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1363
9 - 9 - 9 - 9 - 9 - ¼1½ mièkkjk ¼2½ ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] ekuoh; miHkksx ds fy, eknd mn~xzg.k vkSj
laxzg.kA 'kjkc ds çnk; dks NksM+dj] eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds lHkh var% jkT;h; çnk;ksa ij]
èkkjk 15 ds vèkhu voèkkfjr ewY; ij vkSj chl çfr'kr ls vufèkd ,slh njksa ij] tks ljdkj
}kjk] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij vfèklwfpr dh tk,a] gfj;k.kk jkT; eky vkSj lsok dj uked
dj dk mn~xzg.k vkSj ,slh jhfr] tks fofgr dh tk,] esa laxzg.k fd;k tk,xk vkSj tks djkèks;
O;fDr }kjk Hkqxrku fd;k tk,xkA
¼2½ vifj"—r iSVªksfy;e] gkbZ LihM Mhty] eksVj fLçV ¼ftls vkerkSj ij iSVªksy
dgk tkrk gS½] çk—frd xSl vkSj foekuu VckZbu bZaèku ds çnk; ij jkT; dj dk mn~xzg.k
,slh frfFk] tks ljdkj }kjk] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] vfèklwfpr dh tk,] ls fd;k tk,xkA
¼3½ ljdkj] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] vfèklwpuk }kjk] eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa
ds çnk; ds ,sls çoxZ fofufnZ"V dj ldrh gS] ftl ij dj dk Hkqxrku] ,sls eky ;k lsokvksa
;k nksuksa ds çkfIrdrkZ }kjk foijhr çHkkj ds vkèkkj ij fd;k tk,xk vkSj bl vfèkfu;e
ds lHkh micaèk ,sls çkfIrdrkZ dks bl çdkj ykxw gksaxs] ekuks og ,slk O;fDr gS tks ,sls eky
;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds lacaèk esa dj ds Hkqxrku dk nk;h gSA
¼4½ fdlh ,sls çnk;drkZ }kjk] tks 
dks djkèks; eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds lacaèk esa jkT; dj] ,sls O;fDr }kjk
çkfIrdrkZ ds :i esa foijhr çHkkj ds vkèkkj ij Hkqxrku fd;k tk,xk vkSj bl vfèkfu;e
ds lHkh micaèk ,sls çkfIrdrkZ dks bl çdkj ykxw gksaxs] ekuks og ,slk O;fDr gS tks ,sls eky
;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds lacaèk esa dj ds Hkqxrku dk nk;h gSA
¼5½ ljdkj] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] vfèklwpuk }kjk] lsokvksa ds çoxZ fofufnZ"V
dj ldrh gS] ftlds var%jkT;h; çnk;ksa ij dj] bySDVªkfud okf.kT; çpkyd }kjk Hkqxrku
fd;k tk,xk] ;fn ,slh lsokvksa dk çnk; mlds ekè;e ls fd;k tkrk gS] vkSj bl vfèkfu;e
ds lHkh micaèk ,sls bySDVªkSfud okf.kT; çpkyd dks bl çdkj ykxw gksaxs] ekuks og ,slk
O;fDr iznk;drkZ gS tks ,sls eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds lacaèk esa dj ds Hkqxrku
dk nk;h gS %
ijarq ;fn djkèks; jkT; {ks= esa fdlh bySDVªkfud okf.kT; çpkyd dh HkkSfrd
:i ls mifLFkfr ugha gS rks djkèks; jkT; {ks= esa fdlh ç;kstu ds fy, ,sls bySDVªkfud
okf.kT; çpkyd dk çfrfufèkRo djus okyk dksbZ O;fDr dj Hkqxrku djus dk nk;h gksxk%
ijarq ;g vkSj fd ;fn djkèks; jkT; {ks= esa fdlh bySDVªkfud okf.kT; çpkyd
dh HkkSfrd :i ls mifLFkfr ugha gS vkSj mDr jkT; {ks= esa mldk dksbZ çfrfufèk Hkh ugha
gS] ogka ,slk bySDVªkfud okf.kT; çpkyd] dj Hkqxrku ds ç;kstu ds fy, djkèks; jkT;
{ks= esa fdlh O;fDr dks fu;qDr djsxk vkSj ,slk O;fDr dj Hkqxrku djus dk nk;h gksxkA
10- 10- 10- 10- 10- ¼1½ bl vfèkfu;e esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds izfrdwy gksrs gq, Hkh] fdarq èkkjk 9 dh ç'keu mn~xzg.kA
mièkkjk ¼3½ vkSj ¼4½ ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] dksbZ ,slk 
iwoZorÊ foÙkh; o"kZ esa ladfyr vkorZ ipkl yk[k #i, ls vfèkd ugha gS] ,slh 'krksZa vkSj

1364 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
fucZaèkuksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tks fofgr fd, tk,a] mlds }kjk Hkqxrku dj ds LFkku ij] ,slh
nj ij] tks fofgr dh tk,] fdarq tks]&
¼d½ fdlh fofuekZrk dh n'kk esa] jkT; esa vkorZ ds ,d çfr'kr ls vfèkd
ugha gksxh (
¼[k½ vuqlwph II ds iSjk 6 ds [kaM ¼[k½ esa fufnZ"V çnk; djus esa yxs O;fDr;ksa
dh n'kk esa] jkT; esa vkorZ ds <+kbZ çfr'kr ls vfèkd ugha gksxh ( vkSj
¼x½ vU; çnk;drkZvksa dh n'kk esa] jkT; esa vkorZ ds vkèks çfr'kr ls vfèkd
ugha gksxh]
laxf.kr jkf'k ds Hkqxrku dk fodYi pqu ldsxk %
ijarq ljdkj] vfèklwpuk }kjk] ipkl yk[k #i, dh mDr lhek dks ,d
djksM+ #i, ls vufèkd dh ,slh mPprj jkf'k rd c<+k ldrh gS] ftldh ifj"kn~ }kjk
flQkfj'k dh tk,A
¼2½ 
¼d½ og vuqlwph II ds iSjk 6 ds [kaM ¼[k½ esa fufnZ"V çnk;ksa ls fHkUu] lsokvksa
ds çnk; esa yxk gqvk gS (
¼[k½ og ,sls fdlh eky dk çnk; djus esa yxk gqvk gS] ftl ij vfèkfu;e
ds vèkhu dj mn~xzg.kh; ugha gS (
¼x½ og eky ds fdlh varjjkfT;d tkod çnk; djus esa ugha yxk gS (
¼?k½ og fdlh ,sls bySDVªkfud okf.kT;d çpkyd ds ekè;e ls] ftlls
èkkjk 52 ds vèkhu lzksr ij dj ds laxzg.k dh vis{kk gS] fdlh eky dk
çnk; djus esa ugha yxk gS (
¼³½ og ,sls eky dk fofuekZrk ugha gS] ftls ljdkj }kjk] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa
ij] vfèklwfpr fd;k tk, %
ijarq tgka ,d ls vfèkd 
1961 ¼1961 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 43½ ds vèkhu tkjh LFkk;h [kkrk la[;k ,d
gh gS] ogka ,slk 
fy, fodYi dk pquko djus dk ik= ugha gksxk tc rd ,sls lHkh

ugha djrs gSaA
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fdlh 
ml fnu ls] ftldks foÙkh; o"kZ ds nkSjku mldk ladfyr vkorZ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu
fofufnZ"V lhek ls vfèkd gks tkrk gS] O;ixr gks tk,xkA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1365
¼4½ dksbZ ,slk djkèks; O;fDr] ftldks mièkkjk ¼1½ ds micaèk ykxw gksrs gSa] mlds
}kjk fd, x, çnk;ksa ij çkfIrdrkZ ls fdlh dj dk laxzg.k ugha djsxk vkSj u gh og fdlh
buiqV dj çR;; dk gdnkj gksxkA
¼5½ ;fn leqfpr vfèkdkjh ds ikl ;g fo'okl djus dk dkj.k gS fd fdlh
djkèks; O;fDr us ik= u gksrs gq, Hkh] mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu dj Hkqxrku dj fn;k gS] rks
,slk O;fDr] fdlh ,sls dj ds vfrfjDr] tks bl vfèkfu;e ds fdlh vU; micaèk ds vèkhu
mlds }kjk Hkqxrku;ksX; gks] 'kkfLr dk nk;h gksxk vkSj èkkjk 73 ;k 74 ds micaèk ;Fkk
vko';d ifjorZuksa lfgr dj vkSj 'kkfLr ds voèkkj.k ds fy, ykxw gksaxsA
11- 11- 11- 11- 11- ¼1½ tgka ljdkj dk ;g lekèkku gks tkrk gS fd yksd fgr esa ,slk djuk vko';d dj ls NwV nsus dh
gS] ogka og] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] vfèklwpuk }kjk] lkèkkj.kr;k] ;k rks iw.kZ :i ls ;k 'kfDrA
,slh 'krksZa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tks mlesa fofufnZ"V dh tk,a] ml frfFk ls] tks ,slh vfèklwpuk
esa fofufnZ"V dh tk,] fdlh fofufnZ"V fooj.k ds eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dks ml ij
mn~xzg.kh; laiw.kZ dj ls ;k mlds fdlh Hkkx ls NwV ns ldrh gSA
¼2½ tgka ljdkj dk ;g lekèkku gks tkrk gS fd yksd fgr esa ,slk djuk vko';d
gS] ogka og] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] çR;sd ekeys esa fo'ks"k vkns'k }kjk] ,sls vkns'k esa
dfFkr viokfnd ç—fr dh ifjfLFkfr;ksa ds vèkhu ,sls fdlh eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dks]
ftu ij dj mn~xzg.kh; gS] dj ds Hkqxrku ls NwV ns ldrh gSA
¼3½ ljdkj] ;fn og mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu tkjh fdlh vfèklwpuk dh ;k
mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu tkjh vkns'k dh ifjfèk ;k ç;ksT;rk dks Li"V djus ds ç;kstu ds
fy, ,slk djuk vko';d ;k lehphu le>rh gS] rks mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu vfèklwpuk ;k
mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu vkns'k tkjh gksus ds ,d o"kZ ds Hkhrj fdlh le; vfèklwpuk }kjk]
;FkkfLFkfr] ,slh vfèklwpuk ;k ,sls vkns'k esa O;k[;k var%LFkkfir dj ldsxh vkSj çR;sd
,slh O;k[;k dk ogh çHkko gksxk ekuks og] lnSo] ;FkkfLFkfr] ,slh igyh vfèklwpuk ;k vkns'k
dk Hkkx FkkA
¼4½ dsaæh; ljdkj }kjk] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dj
vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] dh èkkjk 11 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu
tkjh fdlh vfèklwpuk ;k mDr èkkjk dh mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu tkjh fdlh vkns'k dks
;FkkfLFkfr bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu tkjh vfèklwpuk ;k vkns'k le>k tk,xkA
O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k&bl èkkjk ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,] tgka fdlh eky ;k lsok ;k nksuksa ds lacaèk esa] ml O;k[;k& O;k[;k&
ij mn~xzg.kh; laiw.kZ dj ls ;k mlds fdlh Hkkx ls iw.kZ :i ls NwV nh xbZ gS]
ogka ,sls eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk; djus okyk 
;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds ,sls çnk; ij çHkkoh nj ls vfèkd dj dk laxzg.k ugha djsxkA

1366 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; IV
çnk; dk le; vkSj ewY; çnk; dk le; vkSj ewY; çnk; dk le; vkSj ewY; çnk; dk le; vkSj ewY; çnk; dk le; vkSj ewY;
eky ds çnk; dk 12- 12- 12- 12- 12- ¼1½ eky ij dj ds Hkqxrku dk nkf;Ro] bl èkkjk ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj ;Fkk
le;A voèkkfjr çnk; ds le; mn~Hkwr gksxkA
¼2½ eky ds çnk; dk le; fuEufyf[kr frfFk;ksa esa ls iwoZrj gksxk] vFkkZr~&
¼d½ chtd tkjh fd, tkus dh frfFk ;k èkkjk 31 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu
çnk;drkZ }kjk ,slh vafre frfFk] ftldks mlls çnk; ds lEcU/k esa
chtd tkjh djus dh vis{kk gS ( ;k
¼[k½ og frfFk] ftldks çnk;drkZ çnk; ds lEcU/k esa Hkqxrku çkIr djrk
gS %
ijarq tgka djkèks; eky dk çnk;drkZ] dj chtd esa minf'kZr jkf'k
ls ,d gtkj #i, vfèkd rd dh dksbZ jkf'k çkIr djrk gS] ogka çnk; dk
le;] ,slh vkfèkD; jkf'k ds foLrkj rd] mDr çnk;drkZ ds fodYi ij] ,slh
vkfèkD; jkf'k ds lacaèk esa chtd tkjh fd, tkus dh frfFk gksxkA
O;k[;k 1-& O;k[;k 1-& O;k[;k 1-& O;k[;k 1-& O;k[;k 1-& [kaM ¼d½ vkSj ¼[k½ ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,] **çnk;** dks ml foLrkj rd
fd;k x;k le>k tk,xk] tgka rd og] ;FkkfLFkfr] chtd ;k Hkqxrku ds
varxZr vkrk gSA
O;k[;k 2-& O;k[;k 2-& O;k[;k 2-& O;k[;k 2-& O;k[;k 2-& [kaM ¼[k½ ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,] **,slh frfFk] ftldks çnk;drkZ Hkqxrku
çkIr djrk gS**] og frfFk gksxh] ftldks mldh ys[kk&iqLrdksa esa Hkqxrku dh
çfof"V dh tkrh gS ;k og frfFk gksxh] ftldks mlds cSad [kkrs esa Hkqxrku
tek fd;k tkrk gS] buesa ls tks Hkh iwoZrj gksA
¼3½ ,sls çnk;ksa dh n'kk esa] ftuds lacaèk esa] foijhr çHkkj ds vkèkkj ij dj dk
Hkqxrku fd;k tkrk gS ;k dj ds fy, nk;h gS] çnk; dk le; fuEukfyf[kr frfFk;ksa esa ls
iwoZrj gksxk] vFkkZr~ &
¼d½ eky çkfIr dh frfFk ( ;k
¼[k½ Hkqxrku dh frfFk] tks çkfIrdrkZ dh ys[kk&iqLrdksa esa çfo"V gS ;k og
frfFk] ftldks mlds cSad [kkrs esa Hkqxrku dk fodyu fd;k tkrk gS]
buesa ls tks Hkh iwoZrj gks ( ;k
¼x½ çnk;drkZ }kjk chtd ;k mlds ctk, dksbZ vU; nLrkost] pkgs fdlh
Hkh uke ls Kkr gks] tkjh fd, tkus dh frfFk ls rhl fnu ds Bhd
i'pkRorÊ frfFk %
ijarq tgka [kaM ¼d½ ;k ¼[k½ ;k ¼x½ ds vèkhu çnk; ds le; dk
voèkkj.k laHko ugha gS] ogka çnk; dk le;] çnk; ds çkfIrdrkZ dh ys[kk&iqLrdksa
esa çfof"V dh frfFk gksxhA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1367
¼4½ fdlh çnk;drkZ }kjk okÅpjksa dss çnk; dh n'kk esa çnk; dk le;]&
¼d½ okÅpj tkjh djus dh frfFk gksxk] ;fn çnk; ml fcanq ij igpku;ksX;
gS ( ;k
¼[k½ vU; lHkh ekeyksa esa] okÅpj ds ekspu dh frfFk gksxkA
¼5½ tgka mièkkjk ¼2½ ;k ¼3½ ;k ¼4½ ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu çnk; ds le; dk
voèkkj.k djuk laHko ugha gS] ogka çnk; dk le;]&
¼d½ ml n'kk esa] tgka dksbZ vkofèkd fooj.kh nk;j dh tkuh gS] ogka og
frfFk gksxh] ftldks ,slh fooj.kh nk;j dh tkuh gS ( ;k
¼[k½ fdlh vU; n'kk esa] og frfFk gksxh] ftldks dj dk Hkqxrku fd;k tkrk
gSA
¼6½ ml lhek rd] ftl rd mldk lacaèk fdlh çfrQy ds nsj ls Hkqxrku ds
fy, C;kt] foyac Qhl ;k 'kkfLr dks çnk; ds ewY; esa tksM+s tkus dk gS] çnk; dk le;
og frfFk gksxh] ftldks çnk;drkZ ,slk vfrfjDr ewY; çkIr djrk gSA
13- 13- 13- 13- 13- ¼1½ lsokvksa ij dj ds Hkqxrku dk nkf;Ro] bl èkkjk ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj ;Fkk lsokvksa ds çnk; dk
voèkkfjr çnk; ds le; mn~Hkwr gksxkA le;A
¼2½ lsokvksa ds çnk; dk le; fuEu fyf[kr frfFk;ksa esa ls iwoZrj gksxk] vFkkZr~&
¼d½ çnk;drkZ }kjk chtd tkjh fd, tkus dh frfFk] ;fn chtd èkkjk 31
dh mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu fofgr vofèk ds Hkhrj tkjh fd;k tkrk gS ;k
Hkqxrku çkIr djus dh frfFk] buesa ls tks Hkh iwoZrj gks ( ;k
¼[k½ lsok miyCèk djkus dh frfFk] ;fn èkkjk 31 dh mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu
fofgr vofèk ds Hkhrj chtd tkjh ugha fd;k tkrk gS ;k Hkqxrku çkIr
djus dh frfFk] buesa ls tks Hkh iwoZrj gks ( ;k
¼x½ og frfFk] ftldks çkfIrdrkZ viuh ys[kk&iqLrdksa esa lsokvksa dh çkfIr
nf'kZr djrk gS] ml ekeys esa] tgka [kaM ¼d½ ;k ¼[k½ ds micaèk ykxw
ugha gksrs gSa %
ijarq tgka djkèks; lsok dk çnk;drkZ] dj chtd esa minf'kZr jkf'k ls
,d gtkj #i, vfèkd rd dh dksbZ jkf'k çkIr djrk gS] ogka çnk; dk le;]
,slh vkfèkD; jkf'k ds foLrkj rd] mDr çnk;drkZ ds fodYi ij] ,slh
vkfèkD; jkf'k ds lacaèk esa chtd tkjh djus dh frfFk gksxkA
O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& [kaM ¼d½ vkSj ¼[k½ ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,]&
(i) çnk; dks ml lhek rd fd;k x;k le>k tk,xk] ftl rd og] ;Fkk
fLFkfr] chtd ;k Hkqxrku ds varxZr vkrk gS (

1368 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(ii) **Hkqxrku çkfIr djus dh frfFk** og frfFk gksxh] ftldks Hkqxrku dh
çfof"V çnk;drkZ dh ys[kk&iqLrdksa esa dh tkrh gS ;k og frfFk gksxh]
ftldks mlds [kkrs esa Hkqxrku tek fd;k tkrk gS] buesa ls tks Hkh
iwoZrj gksA
¼3½ ,sls çnk;ksa dh n'kk esa] ftuds lacaèk esa] foijhr çHkkj ds vkèkkj ij dj dk
Hkqxrku fd;k tkrk gS ;k dj Hkqxrku;ksX; gS] çnk; dk le; fuEufyf[kr frfFk;ksa esa ls
iwoZrj gksxk] vFkkZr~ %&
¼d½ Hkqxrku dh frfFk] tks çkfIrdrkZ dh ys[kk&iqfLrdksa esa çfo"V gS ;k og
frfFk] ftldks mlds cSad [kkrs ls Hkqxrku dk fodyu fd;k tkrk gS]
buesa ls tks Hkh iwoZrj gks ( ;k
¼[k½ çnk;drkZ }kjk chtd ;k mlds ctk, dksbZ vU; nLrkost] pkgs ftl
uke ls Kkr gks] tkjh fd, tkus dh frfFk ls lkB fnu ds Bhd i'pkRorÊ
frfFk %
ijarq tgka [kaM ¼d½ ;k ¼[k½ ds vèkhu çnk; ds le; dk voèkkj.k laHko
ugha gS] ogka çnk; dk le;] çnk; ds çkfIrdrkZ dh ys[kk&iqLRdksa esa çfof"V
dh frfFk gksxk %
ijarq ;g vkSj fd lg;qDr m|eksa }kjk çnk; dh n'kk esa] tgka lsok dk
çnk;drkZ Hkkjr ls ckgj fLFkr gS] ogka çnk; dk le;] çnk; ds çkfIrdrkZ
dh ys[kk&iqLrdksa esa çfof"V dh frfFk ;k Hkqxrku dh frfFk] buesa ls tks Hkh
iwoZrj gks] gksxkA
¼4½ fdlh çnk;drkZ }kjk okÅpjksa ds çnk; dh n'kk esa çnk; dk le;]&
¼d½ okÅpj tkjh djus dh frfFk gksxk] ;fn çnk; ml fcanq ij igpku;ksX;
gS ( ;k
¼[k½ vU; lHkh ekeyksa esa] okÅpj ds ekspu dh frfFk gksxkA
¼5½ tgka mièkkjk ¼2½ ;k ¼3½ ;k ¼4½ ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu çnk; ds le; dk
voèkkj.k djuk laHko ugha gS] ogka çnk; dk le;]&
¼d½ ml n'kk esa] tgka dksbZ vkofèkd fooj.kh nk;j dh tkuh gS] ogka og
frfFk gksxh] ftldks ,slh fooj.kh nk;j dh tkuh gS ( ;k
¼[k½ fdlh vU; n'kk esa] og frfFk gksxh] ftldks dj dk Hkqxrku fd;k tkrk
gSA
¼6½ ml lhek rd] ftl rd mldk lacaèk fdlh çfrQy ds nsj ls Hkqxrku ds
fy, C;kt] foyac Qhl ;k 'kkfLr dks çnk; ds ewY;ksa esa tksM+s tkus dk gS] çnk; dk le;
og frfFk gksxh] ftldks çnk;drkZ ,slk vfrfjDr ewY; çkIr djrk gSA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1369
14- 14- 14- 14- 14- èkkjk 12 ;k 13 esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] tgka eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa eky ;k lsokvksa ds
çnk; ds lacaèk esa ds lacaèk esa dj dh nj esa dksbZ ifjorZu gksrk gS] ogka çnk; ds le; dk voèkkj.k fuEufyf[kr
dj dh nj esa
jhfr esa fd;k tk,xk] vFkkZr~& ifjorZuA
¼d½ ;fn dj dh nj esa ifjorZu ls iwoZ eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk; fd;k
x;k gS] ml n'kk esa]&
(i) tgka mlds fy, chtd tkjh fd;k x;k gS vkSj Hkqxrku Hkh dj dh nj
esa ifjorZu gksus ds i'pkr~ çkIr gksrk gS] ogka çnk; dk le; Hkqxrku
çkfIr dh frfFk ;k chtd tkjh djus dh frfFk] buesa ls tks Hkh iwoZrj
gks] gksxk ( ;k
(ii) tgka chtd dj dh nj esa ifjorZu gksus ls iwoZ tkjh dj fn;k x;k
gS] fdarq Hkqxrku dj dh nj esa ifjorZu gksus ds i'pkr~ çkIr gksrk gS]
ogka çnk; dk le; chtd tkjh djus dh frfFk gksxk ( ;k
(iii) tgka Hkqxrku dj dh nj esa ifjorZu gksus ls iwoZ çkIr gks x;k gS] fdarq
mlds fy, chtd dj dh nj esa ifjorZu gksus ds i'pkr~ tkjh fd;k
tkrk gS] ogka çnk; dk le; Hkqxrku dh çkfIr dh frfFk gksxk (
¼[k½ dj dh nj esa ifjorZu ds i'pkr~ eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk; fd,
tkus dh n'kk esa]&&
(i) tgka Hkqxrku] dj dh nj esa ifjorZu gksus ds i'pkr~ çkIr gksrk gS] fdarq
chtd dj dh nj esa ifjorZu ds igys tkjh dj fn;k x;k gS] ogka
çnk; dk le; Hkqxrku çkfIr dh frfFk gksxk ( ;k
(ii) tgka dj dh nj esa ifjorZu gksus ls iwoZ chtd tkjh dj fn;k x;k
gS vkSj Hkqxrku Hkh çkIr gks tkrk gS] ogka çnk; dk le; Hkqxrku çkfIr
dh frfFk ;k chtd tkjh djus dh frfFk] buesa ls tks Hkh iwoZrj gks] gksxk(
;k
(iii) tgka dj dh nj esa ifjorZu gksus ds i'pkr~ chtd tkjh fd;k x;k
gS] fdarq Hkqxrku] dj dh nj esa ifjorZu gksus ls iwoZ çkIr gks tkrk gS]
ogka çnk; dk le;] chtd tkjh djus dh frfFk gksxk %
ijarq Hkqxrku çkIr gksus dh frfFk] cSad [kkrs esa tek djus dh frfFk gksxh
;fn cSad [kkrs esa ,slh tek dj dh nj esa ifjorZu dh frfFk ls pkj dk;Z
fnol ds i'pkr~ dh tkrh gSA
O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-&bl èkkjk ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,] **Hkqxrku ds çkIr gksus dh frfFk** og frfFk gksxh] O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-&
ftldks çnk;drkZ dh ys[kk&iqLrdksa esa Hkqxrku dh çfof"V dh tkrh gS ;k og frfFk
gksxh] ftldks mlds cSad [kkrs esa Hkqxrku tek fd;k tkrk gS] buesa ls tks Hkh iwoZrj
gksA

1370 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
djkèks; çnk; dk 15- 15- 15- 15- 15- ¼1½ tgka çnk;drkZ ;k çnk; dk çkfIrdrkZ lacafèkr ugha gS vkSj çnk; ds fy,
ewY;A ,d ek= vkèkkj mldh dher gS] ogka eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds fdlh çnk; dk ewY;]
,slk laO;ogkj ewY; gksxk] tks eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds mDr çnk; ds fy, okLrfod
:i ls Hkqxrku fd;k tkrk gS ;k Hkqxrku;ksX; gSA
¼2½ çnk; ds ewY; esa fuEufyf[kr lfEefyr gksxk]&
¼d½ bl vfèkfu;e] dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk
dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] rFkk eky vkSj lsok dj ¼jkT;ksa dks çfrdj½
vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 15½] ls fHkUu rRle;
ykxw fdlh fofèk ds vèkhu mn~x`ghr dksbZ dj] 'kqYd] midj] Qhl vkSj
çHkkj] ;fn çnk;drkZ }kjk i`Fkd~ :i esa çHkkfjr fd;k x;k gS (
¼[k½ dksbZ ,slh jkf'k] ftldk çnk;drkZ] ,sls çnk; ds lacaèk esa Hkqxrku djus
ds fy, nk;h gS] fdarq tks çnk; ds çkfIrdrkZ }kjk mixr dh xbZ gS
vkSj mls eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds fy, okLrfod :i ls Hkqxrku
;k Hkqxrku;ksX; dher esa lfEefyr ugha fd;k x;k gS (
¼x½ fdlh çnk; ds çkfIrdrkZ ls çnk;drkZ }kjk çHkkfjr vkuq"kafxd O;;]
ftlds varxZr deh'ku vkSj iSd djuk Hkh gS] vkSj eky ;k lsokvksa ds
çnk; ds le; ;k mlds iwoZ eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds lacaèk esa
çnk;drkZ }kjk fd, x, fdlh —R; ds fy, çHkkfjr dksbZ jkf'k (
¼?k½ fdlh çnk; ds fy, fdlh çfrQy ds foyafcr Hkqxrku ds fy, C;kt
;k foyac Qhl ;k 'kkfLr ( vkSj
¼³½ dsaæh; ljdkj vkSj jkT; ljdkjksa }kjk miyCèk djkbZ xbZ lgk;fd;ksa
¼lcflfM;ksa½ dks vioftZr djrs gq, dher ls çR;{kr% tqM+h gqbZ lgkf;fd;ka
¼lcflfM;ka½A
O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-&bl mièkkjk ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,] lgkf;dh dh jkf'k dks lgkf;dh çkIr djus O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-&
okys çnk;drkZ ds] çnk; ds ewY; esa lfEefyr fd;k tk,xkA
¼3½ çnk; ds ewY; esa dksbZ ,slh NwV lfEefyr ugha gksxh] tks]&
¼d½ çnk; ls iwoZ ;k çnk; ds le; nh tkrh gS] ;fn ,slh NwV dks ,sls çnk;
ds lacaèk esa tkjh chtd esa lE¸kd~ :i ls vfHkfyf[kr fd;k x;k gS (
vkSj
¼[k½ çnk; ds çHkkoh gksus ds i'pkr~ nh tkrh gS] ;fn]&
(i) ,slh NwV] ,sls çnk; ds le; ;k mlls iwoZ fd, x, fdlh djkj
ds fucaèkukuqlkj LFkkfir dh tkrh gS vkSj fofufnZ"V :i ls lqlaxr
chtdksa ls tqM+h gqbZ gS ( vkSj

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1371
(ii) çnk;drkZ }kjk tkjh ,sls nLrkost ds vkèkkj ij NwV ds en esa
ekuh xbZ buiqV dj çR;;] ftldh jkf'k dks çkfIrdrkZ }kjk
myV fn;k x;k gSA
¼4½ tgka mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds ewY; dk
voèkkj.k ugha fd;k tk ldrk gS] ogka mldk voèkkj.k ,slh jhfr esa fd;k tk,xk] tks fofgr
dh tk,A
¼5½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ;k ¼4½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] ,sls çnk;ksa ds] ftUgsa
ljdkj }kjk ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] vfèklwfpr fd;k tk,] ewY; dk voèkkj.k ,slh jhfr
esa fd;k tk,xk] tks fofgr dh tk,A
O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k&bl vfèkfu;e ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,]& O;k[;k& O;k[;k&
¼d½ ,sls O;fDr;ksa dks **lEc) O;fDr;ksa** ds :i esa le>k tk,xk] ;fn]&
(i) ,sls O;fDr ,d nwljs ds dkjckj ds vfèkdkjh ;k funs'kd gSa (
(ii) ,sls O;fDr dkjckj esa fofèkd :i ls ekU;rkçkIr Hkkxhnkj gaS (
(iii) ,sls O;fDr fu;kstd vkSj deZpkjh gSa (
(iv) dksbZ O;fDr] ftldk çR;{k :i ls ;k vçR;{k :i ls nksuksa O;fDr;ksa
ds ijkns; ernku LVkWd ;k 'ks;jksa ds iPphl çfr'kr ;k vfèkd
ij LokfeRo ;k fu;a=.k j[krk gS ;k èkkj.k djrk gS (
(v) muesa ls ,d çR;{k :i ls ;k vçR;{k :i ls vU; ij fu;a=.k
j[krk gS (
(vi) os nksuksa çR;{k :i ls ;k vçR;{k :i ls fdlh vU; O;fDr ds
}kjk fu;af=r gSa (
(vii) os lkFk&lkFk çR;{k :i ls ;k vçR;{k :i ls fdlh vU; O;fDr
ij fu;a=.k j[krs gSa ( ;k
(viii) os ,d gh dqVqac ds lnL; gSa (
¼[k½ **O;fDr** in ds varxZr fofèkd O;fDr Hkh gS (
¼x½ dksbZ O;fDr tks nwljs O;fDr ds dkjckj ls bl çdkj lgc) gSa] ftlesa
og nwljs O;fDr dk ,d ek= vfHkdrkZ ;k ,d ek= forjd ;k ,d
ek= fj;k;rxzkgh] pkgs fdlh Hkh uke ls Kkr gks] gS] lac) O;fDr
le>k tk,xkA

1372 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; V
buiqV dj çR;; buiqV dj çR;; buiqV dj çR;; buiqV dj çR;; buiqV dj çR;;
buiqV dj çR;; 16- 16- 16- 16- 16- ¼1½ çR;sd 
ysus ds fy, ik=rk fofgr dh tk,a] vkSj èkkjk 49 esa fofufnZ"V jhfr esas mldks fd, x, ,sls eky ;k lsokvksa ;k
vkSj 'krZsaA nksuksa ds fdlh çnk; ij çHkkfjr buiqV dj çR;; ysus dk gdnkj gksxk] ftldk mlds
dkjckj ds nkSjku ;k mls vxzlj djus esa mi;ksx fd;k tkrk gS ;k mi;ksx fd;k tkuk
vk'kf;r gS vkSj mDr jkf'k ,sls O;fDr ds bySDVªkfud tek [kkrs esa tek dh tk,xhA
¼2½ bl èkkjk esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh dksbZ 
fd, x, fdlh eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds lacaèk esa dksbZ buiqV dj dk çR;;
çkIr djus dk rc rd gdnkj ugha gksxk] tc rd]&
¼d½ mlds dCts esa bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdlh 
}kjk tkjh dksbZ dj chtd ;k ukes uksV ¼MsfcV uksV½ ;k dksbZ vU; ,slk
dj Hkqxrku nLrkost] tks fofgr fd;k tk,] u gks (
¼[k½ og eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa çkIr ugha dj ysrk gSA
O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-& bl [kaM ds ç;kstu ds fy, ;g le>k tk,xk fd 
O;fDr us eky çkIr dj fy;k gS] tgka çnk;drkZ }kjk] fdlh
çkfIrdrkZ dks ;k ,sls 
O;fDr dks] pkgs og vfHkdrkZ ds :i esa dk;Z dj jgk gks ;k ugha]
eky ds lapyu iwoZ ;k mlds nkSjku eky ij gd ds nLrkostksa
ds varj.k }kjk ;k vU;Fkk] eky ifjnRr dj fn;k tkrk gS (
¼x½ èkkjk 41 ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] ,sls çnk; ds lacaèk esa çHkkfjr
dj dk] udn esa ;k mDr çnk; ds lacaèk esa] vuqKs; buiqV dj çR;;
dk mi;ksx djds] okLrfod :i ls ljdkj dks Hkqxrku u dj fn;k
tk, ( vkSj
¼?k½ og èkkjk 39 ds vèkhu fooj.kh u ns ns %
ijarq tgka eky] chtd ds fo#)] ykWV ;k fdLrksa esa çkIr gksrk gS] ogka

gksxk %
ijarq ;g vkSj fd tgka dksbZ çkfIrdrkZ] ,sls çnk;ksa ls fHkUu] ftu ij
foijhr çHkkj ds vkèkkj ij dj Hkqxrku;ksX; gS] eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds
çnk;drkZ dks çnk; ds ewY; ds lkFk ml ij Hkqxrku;ksX; dj ds en~ns jkf'k
dk] çnk;drkZ }kjk chtd tkjh djus dh frfFk ls ,d lkS vLlh fnu dh
vofèk ds Hkhrj Hkh Hkqxrku djus esa vlQy jgrk gS] ogka çkfIrdrkZ }kjk
miHkksx fd, x, buiqV dj çR;; ds cjkcj jkf'k dks] ml ij C;kt ds lkFk]
,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] mlds vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro esa tksM+ fn;k
tk,xk%

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1373
ijarq ;g Hkh fd çkfIrdrkZ eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ewY; ds
lkFk ml ij Hkqxrku;ksX; dj ds eís jkf'k dk mlds }kjk fd, x, Hkqxrku
ij buiqV dj çR;; dk miHkksx djus dk gdnkj gksxkA
¼3½ tgka 
vf/kfu;e 43½ ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu iwath eky vkSj la;a= rFkk e'khujh dh ykxr ds dj
la?kVd ij voewY;u dk nkok fd;k gS] ogka mDr dj la?kVd ij buiqV dj çR;;
vuqKkr ugha fd;k tk,xkA
¼4½ dksbZ 
uksV ls lacafèkr chtd lacafèkr gS] var ds vxys flracj ekl ds fy, èkkjk 39 ds vèkhu
fooj.kh ds fn, tkus dh ns; frfFk ds i'pkr~ eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds fy,
fdlh chtd ;k ukes uksV ds lacaèk esa ;k lqlaxr okf"kZd fooj.kh nsus ds fy,] buesa ls tks
Hkh iwoZrj gks] buiqV dj çR;; ysus dk gdnkj ugha gksxkA
17- 17- 17- 17- 17- ¼1½ tgka 
fdlh dkjckj ds ç;kstu ds fy, fd;k tkrk gS vkSj Hkkxr% vU; ç;kstu ds fy, fd;k çR;; dk çHkktuA
tkrk gS] ogka çR;; dh jkf'k mlds dkjckj ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, ekuh xbZ lhek rd
fucaZf/kr gksxhA
¼2½ tgka 
vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu ;k ,dh—r eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu 'kwU; nj çnk;ksa
lfgr djkèks; çnk;ksa dks iw.kZ djus ds fy, vkSj Hkkxr% mDr vfèkfu;eksa ds vèkhu NwV çkIr
çnk;ksa dks iw.kZ djus ds fy, fd;k tkrk gS] ogka çR;; dh mruh jkf'k] ftls 'kwU; nj çnk;ksa
lfgr mDr djkèks; çnk;ksa ds fy, ekuh xbZ lhek rd fucaZf/kr gksxhA
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu NwV çkIr çnk; dk ewY; ,slk gksxk] tks fofgr fd;k
tk,] vkSj mlesa ,sls çnk;] ftl ij çkfIrdrkZ foijhr çHkkj ds vkèkkj ij dj Hkqxrku dk
nk;h gS] çfrHkwfr laO;ogkjksa] Hkwfe foØ; vkSj vuqlwph II ds iSjk 5 ds [kaM ¼[k½ ds vèkhu
jgrs gq, Hkou dk foØ; lfEefyr gksxkA
¼4½ tgka dksbZ cSafdax daiuh ;k dksbZ foÙkh; laLFkk] ftlds varxZr ,slh xSj cSafdax
foÙkh; daiuh Hkh gS] tks fu{ksiksa dk çfrxzg.k djds] _.kksa ;k vfxze èku dk foLrkj djds
lsokvksa dk çnk; djus esa yxh gqbZ gS] ogk¡ mls mièkkjk ¼2½ ds micaèkksa dk ikyu djus
dk ;k gj ekg ml ekl ds çR;;ksa] iwath eky vkSj buiqV lsokvksa ij oj.kh; buiqV dj
çR;; ds ipkl çfr'kr ds cjkcj jkf'k dk miHkksx djus dk fodYi gksxk vkSj 'ks"k O;ixr
gks tk,xk%
ijarq ,d ckj mi;ksx fd, x, fodYi dks foÙkh; o"kZ ds 'ks"k Hkkx ds nkSjku
çR;kâr ugha fd;k tk,xk %

1374 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
ijarq ;g vkSj fd ipkl çfr'kr dk fucZaèku ,d 
leku LFkk;h [kkrk la[;kd okys fdlh vU; 
Hkqxrku dj dks ykxw ugha gksxkA
¼5½ èkkjk 16 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ vkSj èkkjk 18 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr
ds gksrs gq, Hkh] fuEufyf[kr ds lacaèk esa buiqV dj çR;; miyCèk ugha gksxk] vFkkZr~ %&
¼d½ eksVj ;ku vkSj vU; çog.k] flok; rc ds tc mudk mi;ksx]&
(i) fuEufyf[kr djkèks; çnk;ksa dks djus ds fy, fd;k tkrk gS]
vFkkZr~&
¼v½ ,sls ;kuksa ;k çog.kksa ds vkxs ds çnk; ds fy, ( ;k
¼vk½ ;kf=;ksa ds ifjogu ds fy, ( ;k
¼b½ ,sls ;kuksa ;k çog.kksa ds pkyu] mM+ku] ukSifjogu dk çf'k{k.k
nsus ds fy, (
(ii) eky ds ifjogu ds fy, (
¼[k½ eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds fuEufyf[kr çnk; ds fy, %&
(i) [kk| vkSj is; inkFkZ] cká [kkuiku] lkSan;Z mipkj] LokLF; lsok,a]
çlkèku vkSj IykfLVd 'kY;&fpfdRlk] ogka ds flok;] tgka fdlh
djkèks; O;fDr }kjk fdlh fof'k"V çoxZ ds eky ;k lsokvksa ;k
nksuksa ds vkod çnk; dk mi;ksx oSls gh çoxZ ds eky ;k lsokvksa
;k nksuksa ds tkod djkèks; çnk; ds fy, ;k djkèks; la;qDr ;k
fefJr çnk; ds ,d rRo ds :i esa fd;k tkrk gS(
(ii) fdlh Dyc] LokLF; vkSj fQVusl dsaæ dh lnL;rk (
(iii) fdjk, dh xkM+h] thou chek vkSj LokLF; chek] ogka ds flok;]
tgka]&
¼v½ ljdkj us ,slh lsokvksa dks vfèklwfpr fd;k gS] ftudk
rRle; ykxw fdlh fofèk ds vèkhu fdlh fu;kstd ds fy,
mlds deZpkfj;ksa dks miyCèk djkuk ckè;dj gS ( ;k
¼vk½ fdlh 
;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds ,sls vkod çnk; dk mi;ksx mlh
çoxZ ds eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk tkod djkèks; çnk;
djus ds fy, ;k djkèks; la;qDr ;k fefJr çnk; ds Hkkx:i
fd;k tkrk gS ( vkSj
(iv) çodk'k ij deZpkfj;ksa ds fy, foLrkfjr ;k=k Qk;ns tSls NqV~Vh
;k x`g ;k=k fj;k;rA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1375
¼x½ dk;Z lafonk lsok,a] tc mudk çnk; vpy laifRr ¼la;a= vkSj e'khujh
ls fHkUu½ ds lfUuekZ.k ds fy, fd;k tkrk gS] ogka ds flok; tgka og
dk;Z lafonk lsok ds vkxs ds çnk; ds fy, dksbZ vkod lsok gS (
¼?k½ fdlh djkèks; O;fDr }kjk vius [kkrs esa] fdlh vpy laifRr ¼la;a=
vkSj e'khujh ls fHkUu½ ds lfUuekZ.k ds fy, çkIr fd;k x;k eky ;k
lsok,a ;k nksuksa] ftlds varxZr ,slk eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa Hkh gSa]
ftudk mi;ksx dkjckj ds nkSjku ;k mls vxzlj djus ds fy, fd;k
tkrk gSA
O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-& [kaM ¼x½ vkSj ¼?k½ ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,] **lfUuekZ.k** vfHkO;fDr O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-&
ds varxZr mDr vpy laifRr dk iwathdj.k ds foLrkj rd] iqu%
lfUuekZ.k] uohdj.k] ifjoèkZu ;k ifjorZu ;k ejEer Hkh gS (
¼³½ ,slk eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa] ftu ij èkkjk 10 ds vèkhu dj Hkqxrku
dj fn;k x;k gS (
¼p½ fdlh vfuoklh djkèks; O;fDr }kjk] mlds }kjk vk;kfrr eky ij ds
flok;] çkIr eky ;k lsok,a ;k nksuksa (
¼N½ O;fDrxr miHkksx ds fy, iz;qDr eky ;k lsok,a ;k nksuksa (
¼t½ [kks;k gqvk] pksjh gqvk] u"V gqvk] vifyf[kr ;k lSaiy }kjk nku ;k
fu%'kqYd O;;fur eky (
¼>½ èkkjk 74] 129 vkSj 130 ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj Hkqxrku fd;k x;k dksbZ
djA
¼6½ ljdkj ,slh jhfr fofgr dj ldrh gS] ftls mièkkjk ¼1½ vkSj ¼2½ esa fufnZ"V
çR;; fuèkkZfjr fd;k tk ldrk gSA
O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-& bl vè;k; vkSj vè;k; O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-& VI ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,] **la;a= vkSj e'khujh** vfHkO;fDr
ls vfHkizk; gS] ,sls lkfèk=] miLdj vkSj çfr"Bkiu ;k lajpukRed vkyac }kjk
Hkwfe ij fLFkj e'khujh] ftudk mi;ksx eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk tkod
çnk; djus ds fy, fd;k tkrk gS vkSj blds varxZr ,slk çfr"Bkiu ;k lajpukRed
vkyac Hkh gSa] fdarq blesa fufEufyf[kr vioftZr gSa]&
(i) Hkwfe] Hkou ;k dksbZ vU; flfoy <kapk (
(ii) nwj&lapkj Vkoj ( vkSj
(iii) dkj[kkuk ifjlj ds ckgj fcNkbZ xbZ ikbi ykbusaA
18- 18- 18- 18- 18- ¼1½ ,slh 'krksZa vkSj fucZèkauksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tks fofgr fd, tk,a]& fo'ks"k ifjfLFkfr;ksa
esa çR;; dh
¼d½ dksbZ ,slk O;fDr] ftlus bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu 
miyCèkrkA
nk;h gksus dh frfFk ls rhl fnu ds Hkhrj vkosnu fd;k gS] vkSj mls
,slk 

1376 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu dj Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h gqvk gS] ls Bhd
iwoZorÊ fnu dks LVkWd esa èkkfjr fuos'kksa rFkk LVkWd esa èkkfjr vèkZ ifj:fir
;k ifj:fir eky esa fn, x, fuos'kksa ds lacaèk esa buiqV dj çR;; ysus
dk gdnkj gksxk(
¼[k½ dksbZ O;fDr] ftlus èkkjk 25 dh mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu 
çkIr fd;k gS] 
dks LVkWd esa èkkfjr fuos'kksa vkSj LVkWd esa fn, x, vèkZ ifj:fir ;k
ifj:fir eky ds lacaèk esa buiqV dj çR;; ysus dk gdnkj gksxk (
¼x½ tgka dksbZ 
can djrk gS] ogka og ml frfFk] ftlls og èkkjk 9 ds vèkhu dj dk
Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h gqvk gS] ls Bhd iwoZorÊ fnu dks LVkWd esa
èkkfjr fuos'kkas] LVkWd esa èkkfjr vèkZ ifj:fir ;k ifj:fir eky esa fn,
x, fuos'kksa ds lacaèk esa vkSj iwath eky ij buiqV dj çR;; ysus dk
gdnkj gksxk %
ijarq iwath eky ij çR;; dks ,sls çfr'krrk fcanq rd de dj fn;k
tk,xk] tks fofgr fd;k tk, (
¼?k½ tgka fdlh 
çkIr çnk; djkèks; çnk; gks x;k gS] ogka ,slk O;fDr ml frfFk] ftldks
,slk çnk; djkèks; gqvk gS] ls Bhd iwoZorÊ fnu dks ,sls NwV çkIr çnk;
ds fy, vU; :i ls lacafèkr LVkWd esa èkkfjr fuos'kksa vkSj LVkWd esa èkkfjr
vèkZ ifj:fir ;k ifj:fir eky esa fn, x, fuos'kksa ds lacaèk esa vkSj
iwath eky ij buiqV dj çR;; ysus dk gdnkj gksxk %
ijarq iwath eky ij çR;; dks ,sls çfr'krrk fcanq rd de dj fn;k
tk,xk] tks fofgr fd;k tk,A
¼2½ dksbZ 
dh frfFk ls ,d o"kZ dh lekfIr ds i'pkr~ mls çnk; fd, x, eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa
ds lacaèk esa mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu buiqV dj çR;; çkIr djus dk gdnkj ugha gksxkA
¼3½ tgka fdlh 
ds lkFk] dkjckj ds foØ;] foy;u] fufoZy;u] lekesyu] iV~Vk ;k varj.k ds dkj.k dksbZ
ifjorZu gksrk gS] ogka mDr 
vuqKkr gksxk] tks ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] ,sls foØhr] foyhu] fufoZyhu] lekesfyr]
iV~Vs ij fn, x, ;k varfjr dkjckj ds mlds bySDVªkfud fuos'k [kkrs esa vuqi;ksftr gSA
¼4½ tgka buiqV dj çR;; dks miHkksx djus okyk dksbZ 
èkkjk 10 ds vèkhu dj izR;; dk Hkqxrku djus ds fodYi dk mi;ksx fd;k gS ;k tgka mlds
}kjk çnk; fd, x, eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa iw.kZ :i ls NwV çkIr gks x, gSa] ogka og

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1377
bySDVªkfud fuos'k [kkrs ;k bySDVªkfud udn [kkrs esa] fodyu }kjk ,slh jkf'k dk Hkqxrku
djsxk] tks ;FkkfLFkfr] ,sls fodYi dk ç;ksx djus ;k ,slh NwV dh frfFk ls Bhd iwoZorÊ
frfFk dks LVkWd esa èkkfjr fuos'kksa vkSj LVkWd esa èkkfjr vèkZ ifj:fir ;k ifj:fir eky esa
fn, x, fuos'kksa ds lacaèk esa vkSj iwath eky ij] ,sls çfr'krrk fcanq dks] tks fofgr fd;k
tk,] de djds] buiqV dj çR;; ds cjkcj gS %
ijarq ,slh jkf'k dk Hkqxrku djus ds i'pkr~ mlds bySDVªkfud çR;; [kkrs
esa iM+k gqvk buiqV dj çR;; dk vfr'ks"k] ;fn dksbZ gks] O;ixr gks tk,xkA
¼5½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu çR;; dh jkf'k vkSj mièkkjk ¼4½ ds vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX;
jkf'k dh lax.kuk ,slh jhfr esa dh tk,xh] tks fofgr dh tk,A
¼6½ ,sls iwath eky ;k la;a= vkSj e'khujh ds çnk; dh n'kk esa] ftl ij buiqV
dj çR;; fy;k x;k gS] 
fy, x, buiqV dj çR;; ,sls çfr'krrk fcanq dks ?kVkdj] tks fofgr fd;k tk,] ds cjkcj
jkf'k dk ;k èkkjk 15 ds vèkhu ,sls iwath eky ;k la;a= vkSj e'khujh ds laO;ogkj ewY; ij
dj dk] buesa ls tks Hkh vfèkd gks] Hkqxrku djsxk %
ijarq tgka LØSi ds :i esa fjQSDVjh bZaVsa] lkaps vkSj MkbZ] ftXl vkSj fQDpjksa
dk çnk; fd;k tkrk gS] ogka djkèks; O;fDr èkkjk 15 ds vèkhu voèkkfjr ,sls eky ds
laO;ogkj ewY; ij dj dk Hkqxrku dj ldrk gSA
19- 19- 19- 19- 19- ¼1½ çèkku] ,slh 'krksZa vkSj fucZèkauksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tks fofgr fd, tk,a] NqViqV NqViqV dk;Z ds fy,
dk;Z ds fy, fdlh NqViqV dk;Z djus okys O;fDr dks Hksts x, fuos'kksa ij buiqV dj çR;; Hksts x, fuos'kksa vkSj
iwath eky ds lacaèk
vuqKkr djsxkA
esa buiqV dj çR;;
¼2½ èkkjk 16 dh mièkkjk ¼2½ ds [kaM ¼[k½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] dk fy;k tkukA
çèkku fuos'kksa dks igys mlds dkjckj ds LFkku ij yk, fcuk NqViqV dk;Z ds fy, fdlh
NqViqV dk;Z djus okys O;fDr dks lhèks Hksts tkus ij Hkh] fuos'kksa ij] buiqV dj çR;; ysus
dk gdnkj gksxkA
¼3½ tgka çèkku dks] NqViqV dk;Z ds fy, Hksts x, fuos'k Hksts tkus ds ,d o"kZ ds
Hkhrj] NqViqV dk;Z iwjk gksus ds i'pkr~ ;k vU;Fkk okil çkIr ugha gksrk gS ;k NqViqV dk;Z
djus okys O;fDr ds dkjckj ds LFkku ls èkkjk 143 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds [kaM ¼d½ ;k ¼[k½
ds vuqlkj mldk çnk; ugha fd;k tkrk gS] ogka ;g le>k tk,xk fd çèkku }kjk NqViqV
dk;Z djus okys O;fDr dks ,sls fuos'kksa dk çnk; ml fnu fd;k x;k Fkk] tc mDr fuos'k
ckgj Hksts x, Fks %
ijarq tgka fdlh NqViqV dk;Z djus okys O;fDr dks lhèks fuos'k Hksts tkrs gSa]
ogka fdlh ,d o"kZ dh vofèk dh lax.kuk NqViqV dk;Z djus okys O;fDr }kjk fuos'kksa ds
çkIr djus dh frfFk ls dh tk,xhA
¼4½ çèkku] ,slh 'krksZa vkSj fucZaèkuksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tks fofgr fd, tk,a] NqViqV
dk;Z ds fy, fdlh NqViqV dk;Z djus okys O;fDr dks Hksts x, iwath eky ij buiqV dj
çR;; vuqKkr djsxkA

1378 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼5½ èkkjk 16 dh mièkkjk ¼2½ ds [kaM ¼[k½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh]
çèkku iwath eky dks igys mlds dkjckj ds LFkku ij yk, fcuk NqViqV dk;Z ds fy, fdlh
NqViqV dk;Z djus okys O;fDr dks lhèks Hksts tkus ij Hkh] iwath eky ij] buiqV dj çR;;
ysus dk gdnkj gksxkA
¼6½ tgka çèkku dks NqViqV dk;Z ds fy, Hkstk x;k iwath eky] ckgj Hksts tkus ds
rhu o"kZ dh vofèk ds Hkhrj okil çkIr ugha gksrk gS] ogka ;g le>k tk,xk fd çèkku }kjk
NqViqV dk;Z djus okys O;fDr dks ,sls iwath eky dk çnk; ml fnu fd;k x;k Fkk tc
mDr iwath eky Hkstk x;k Fkk %
ijarq tgka fdlh NqViqV dk;Z djus okys O;fDr dks lhèks iwath eky Hkstk tkrk
gS] ogka rhu o"kZ dh vofèk dh lax.kuk NqViqV dk;Z djus okys O;fDr }kjk iwath eky ds
çkIr djus dh frfFk ls dh tk,xhA
¼7½ mièkkjk ¼3½ ;k mi/kkjk ¼6½ esa nh xbZ dksbZ ckr NqViqV dk;Z djus ds fy,
fdlh NqViqV dk;Z djus okys O;fDr dks Hksts x, lkaps vkSj MkbZ] ftXl vkSj fQDpjksa ;k
vkStkjksa dks ykxw ugha gksxhA
O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-&bl èkkjk ds ç;kstu ds fy, **çèkku** ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 143 esa fufnZf"V O;fDrA O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-&
buiqV lsok forjd 20- 20- 20- 20- 20- ¼1½ buiqV lsok forjd] ,slh jhfr] tks fofgr dh tk,] esa dksbZ ,slk nLrkost
}kjk çR;; ds tkjh djds] ftlesa forj.k fd, tkus okys buiqV dj çR;; dh jkf'k nh xbZ gks] jkT;
forj.k dh jhfrA dj ds çR;; dk jkT; dj ;k ,dh—r dj ds :i esa vkSj ,dh—r dj dk ,dh—r dj
;k jkT; dj ds :i esa forj.k djsxkA
¼2½ buiqV lsok forjd] fuEufyf[kr 'krksZa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] çR;; dk forj.k
dj ldrk gS] vFkkZr~ %&
¼d½ çR;; ds çkfIrdrkZvksa dks fdlh nLrkost ds fy,] ftlesa ,sls C;kSjs fn,
x, gksa] tks fofgr fd, tk,a] çR;; dk forj.k fd;k tk ldrk gS (
¼[k½ forj.k fd, x, çR;; dh jkf'k] forj.k ds fy, miyCèk çR;; dh
jkf'k ls vfèkd ugha gksxh (
¼x½ fdlh çR;; ds çkfIrdrkZ dks mlds lacaèk esa ekuh xbZ buiqV lsokvksa
ij Hkqxrku dj çR;; dk forj.k dsoy ml çkfIrdrkZ dks gh fd;k
tk,xk (
¼?k½ ,d ls vfèkd çR;; ds çkfIrdrkZ dks muds lacaèk esa ekuh xbZ buiqV
lsokvksa ij Hkqxrku dj ds çR;; dk forj.k ,sls çkfIrdrkZvksa ds chp
fd;k tk,xk] ftuds fy, buiqV lsok ekuh tk ldrh gS] vkSj ,slk
forj.k lqlaxr vofèk ds nkSjku ,sls çkfIrdrkZ ds jkT; esa vkorZ ;k
la?k jkT;{ks= esa vkorZ ds vkèkkj ij] ,sls lHkh çkfIrdrkZvksa ds] ftuds
lacaèk esa ,slh buiqV lsok ekuh xbZ gS] vkorZ dk ladyu ds vuqikrr%
gksxk (

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1379
¼³½ çR;; ds lHkh çkfIrdrkZvksa ds fy, muds lacaèk esa ekuh xbZ buiqV
lsokvksa ij Hkqxrku dj çR¸k; dk ,sls çkfIrdrkZvksa ds chp forj.k
fd;k tk,xk vkSj ,slk forj.k ,sls çkfIrdrkZ ds jkT; esa vkorZ ;k la?k
jkT;{ks= esa vkorZ ds vkèkkj ij] lqlaxr vofèk ds nkSjku lHkh çkfIrdrkZvksa
tks mDr lqlaxr vofèk ds nkSjku pkyw o"kZ esa lafØ;kRed gSa] ds vkorZ
dk ladyu ds vuqikrr% gksxkA
O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-&bl èkkjk ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,]&& O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-&
¼d½ **lqlaxr vofèk**]&
(i) ;fn çR;; ds çkfIrdrkZvksa dk] ml o"kZ ds iwoZorÊ foÙkh; o"kZ
esa] ftlds nkSjku çR;; dk forj.k fd;k tkuk gS] muds jkT;ksa
;k la?k jkT;{ks=ksa esa vkorZ gS rks mDr foÙkh; o"kZ gksxh ( ;k
(ii) ;fn çR;; ds dqN ;k lHkh çkfIrdrkZvksa dk] ml o"kZ ds iwoZorÊ
foÙkh; o"kZ esa] ftlds nkSjku çR;; dk forj.k fd;k tkuk gS]
muds jkT;ksa ;k la?k jkT;{ks=ksa esa dksbZ vkorZ ugha gS rks ml ekl
ds igys dk] ftlds nkSjku çR;; dk forj.k fd;k tkuk gS] ,slh
vafre frekgh gksxh] ftlds fy, lHkh çkfIrdrkZvksa ds ,sls vkorZ
ds C;kSjs miyCèk gSa (
¼[k½ **çR;; ds çkfIrdrkZ** vfHkO;fDr ls vfHkizk; gS] buiqV lsok forjd ds
:i esa leku LFkk;h [kkrk la[;kad okyk eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk
çnk;drkZ (
¼x½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu djkèks; eky vkSj ,sls eky] tks djkèks; ugha
gS] ds çnk; esa yxk gqvk fdlh 
'kCn ls vfHkizk; gS] lafoèkku dh lkroha vuqlwph dh lwph I dh
çfof"V 84 vkSj mDr vuqlwph dh lwph II dh çfof"V 51 vkSj 54 ds
vèkhu mn~x`ghr fdlh 'kqYd ;k dj dh jkf'k dks ?kVkdj vkorZ dk
ewY;A
21- 21- 21- 21- 21- tgka buiqV lsok dj forjd] èkkjk 20 esa fn, x, micaèkksa ds mYya?ku esa çR;; vkfèkD; esa forfjr
dk ,slk forj.k djrk gS] ftlds ifj.kkeLo:i çR;; ds ,d ;k vfèkd çkfIrdrkZvksa dks çR;; ds olwyh dh
vkfèkD; esa çR;; dk forj.k gks tkrk gS ogka ,sls çkfIrdrkZvksa ls bl çdkj forfjr vkfèkD; jhfrA
çR;; C;kt ds lkFk olwy fd;k tk,xk vkSj] ;FkkfLFkfr] èkkjk 73 ;k èkkjk 74 ds micaèk
olwy fd, tkus okyh jkf'k ds voèkkj.k ds fy, ;Fkk vko';d ifjorZu lfgr ykxw gksaxsA

1380 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; VI

fy, nk;h O;fDrA çnk;drkZ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu 
esa mldk ladfyr vkorZ chl yk[k #i, ls vfèkd gS %
ijarq fo'ks"k çoxZ ds jkT;ksa esa ls fdlh jkT; ls eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk
djkèks; çnk; djus okyk ,slk O;fDr 
foÙkh; o"kZ esa mldk ladfyr vkorZ nl yk[k #i, ls vfèkd gSA
¼2½ çR;sd O;fDr tks] fu;r fnu ls Bhd iwoZorÊ fnu] fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu

ds fy, nk;h gksxkA
¼3½ tgka bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu 
dkjckj] fdlh vU; O;fDr dks pkyw leqRFkku ds :i esa] pkgs mRrjkfèkdkj ;k vU;Fkk
varfjr ds ys[ks esa fd;k tkrk gS rks] ;FkkfLFkfr] varfjrh ;k mÙkjkfèkdkjh] ds dkj.k] ,sls
varj.k ;k mÙkjkfèkdkj dh frfFk ls 
¼4½ mi/kkjk ¼1½ vkSj ¼3½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh fdlh mPp U;k;ky;]
vf/kdj.k ds vkns'k ds vuqlj.k esa ;k vU;Fkk nks ;k vf/kd dEifu;kas ds fdlh Ldhe dh
eatwjh ;k fdlh lekesyu ;k ;FkkfLFkfr] fufoZy;u ds vuqlj.k fdlh varj.k dh n'kk esa
varfjrh ,slh frfFk ls ftlls mPp U;k;ky; ;k vfèkdj.k ds ,sls vkns'k dks çHkko nsrs gq,
daiuh jftLVªkj fuxeu dk çek.ki= tkjh djrk gS] 
gksxkA
O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-&bl èkkjk ds ç;kstu ds fy,]& O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-&
(i) **ladfyr vkorZ** vfHkO;fDr esa] djkèks; O;fDr }kjk fd, x, lHkh
çnk;] pkgs mlds vius ys[ks ;k mlds lHkh ekfydksa dh vksj ls] lfEefyr
gS (
(ii) 
eky dk iznk;] èkkjk 143 ds fufnZ"V çèkku }kjk eky dk iznk; ekuk
tk,xk vkSj ,sls eky esa 
lfEefyr ugha gksxk (
(iii) **fo'ks"k çoxZ jkT;ksa** vfHkO;fDr ls vfHkizk; gksxk] lafoèkku ds vuqPNsn
279d ds [kaM ¼4½ ds mi[kaM ¼N½ esa ;FkkfofufnZ"V jkT;A

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1381
23- 23- 23- 23- 23- ¼1½ fuEufyf[kr O;fDr 

¼d½ dksbZ O;fDr tks ,sls eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds dkjckj esa vuU; :i fy, nk;h ugha gSA
ls yxk gqvk gS tks bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu ;k ,dh—r eky ;k lsok
dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 13½] ds vèkhu dj
ds fy, nk;h ugha gS ;k dj ls iw.kZ :i ls NwV çkIr gS (
¼[k½ dksbZ —"kd] Hkwfe ij [ksrh dh mit ds çnk; ds foLrkj rdA
¼2½ ljdkj] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] vfèklwpuk }kjk] ,sls O;fDr;ksa ds çoxZ
ftUgsa bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu 
dj ldrh gSA
24- 24- 24- 24- 24- èkkjk 22 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] O;fDr;ksa ds fuEufyf[kr dfri; ekeyksa esa
çoxksZa dks bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu 

(i) O;fDr tks varjjkfT;d djkèks; çnk; djrs gSa (
(ii) djkèks; çnk; djus okys uSfefRrd djkèks; O;fDr (
(iii) O;fDr ftlls foijhr çHkkj ds vèkhu dj dk Hkqxrku visf{kr gS (
(iv) O;fDr ftuls èkkjk 9 dh mièkkjk ¼5½ ds vèkhu dj dk Hkqxrku visf{kr gS(
(v) djkèks; çnk; djus okys vfuoklh djkèks; O;fDr (
(vi) O;fDr ftuls èkkjk 51 ds vèkhu dj dh dVkSrh djuk visf{kr gS pkgs bl
vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu i`Fkd :i ls 
(vii) O;fDr tks] pkgs vfHkdrkZ ds :i esa ;k vU;Fkk] vU; djkèks; O;fDr;ksa dh
vksj ls djkèks; ekyksa ;k lsokvksa vFkok nksuksa dk çnk; djrs gSa (
(viii) buiqV lsok forjd] pkgs bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu i`Fkd :i ls 
;k ugha (
(ix) O;fDr] tks èkkjk 9 dh mièkkjk ¼5½ ds vèkhu fofufnZ"V çnk; ls fHkUu eky
;k lsokvksa vFkok nksuksa dk çnk; ,sls bySDVªksfud okf.kT; izpkyd ftuls
èkkjk 52 ds vèkhu lzksr ij dj lax`ghr djuk] ds ekè;e ls djrs gaS (
(x) çR;sd bySDVªkfud okf.kT; izpkyd (
(xi) çR;sd O;fDr tks Hkkjr ls ckgj ds LFkku ls v‚u&ykbu lwpuk vkSj MkVk
vkèkkj igqap ;k lqèkkj lsokvksa Hkkjr esa 
O;fDr dks çnk; djrk gS ( vkSj
(xii) ,sls vU; O;fDr ;k O;fDr;ksa dk oxZ ftUgsa ljdkj }kjk ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa
ij vfèklwfpr fd;k tk,A

1382 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)

fy, çfØ;kA gS] og ml frfFk] ftldks og 
,slh jhfr vkSj ,slh 'krksZa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tks fofgr dh tk,] 
vkosnu djsxk %
ijarq uSfefRrd djkèks; O;fDr ;k vfuoklh djkèks; O;fDr dkjckj çkjaHk gksus
ds de ls de ikap fnu igys 
¼2½ dksbZ O;fDr tks bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu 
,dy 
ijarq ,d jkT; esa cgqy dkjckj ofVZdy j[kus okys O;fDr dks] ,slh 'krksZa]
tks fofgr dh tk,a] ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] çR;sd dkjckj ofVZdy ds fy, i`Fkd 
eatwj fd;k tk ldrk gSA
¼3½ dksbZ O;fDr tks èkkjk 22 ;k 24 ds vèkhu 
gS og Lo;a dks LosPN;k 
gh ,sls O;fDr ij ykxw gksaxs tSls 
¼4½ dksbZ O;fDr ftlus ,d ls vfèkd 
esa vFkok ,d ls vfèkd jkT;ksa vFkok la?k jkT;{ks= esa çkIr fd;k gS ;k çkIr djuk visf{kr
gS] çR;sd 
:i esa ekuk tk,xkA
¼5½ tgka dksbZ O;fDr ftlus fdlh LFkkiuk ds lEcU/k esa jkT; ;k la?k jkT;{ks=
esa 
jkT;{ks= esa dksbZ LFkkiuk gS] rc ,sls LFkkiukvksa dks bl vfèkfu;e ds ç;kstu ds fy, lqfHkUu
O;fDr;ksa ds LFkkiukvksa ds :i esa ekuk tk,xkA
¼6½ çR;sd O;fDr] 
vfèkfu;e] 1961 ¼1961 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 43½] ds vèkhu tkjh LFkk;h [kkrk la[;k
j[ksxk%
ijarq O;fDr ftlls èkkjk 51 ds vèkhu dj dh dVkSrh djuk visf{kr gS] LFkk;h
[kkrk la[;k ds ctk;] 
ds vèkhu tkjh dj dVkSrh vkSj laxzg.k [kkrk la[;k j[k ldsxkA
¼7½ mièkkjk ¼6½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] ,d vfuoklh djkèks; O;fDr
dks ,sls vU; nLrkostksa tks fofgr fd, tk,a] ds vkèkkj ij mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu 
çnku fd;k tk ldrk gSA
¼8½ tgka dksbZ O;fDr] tks bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu 
nk;h gS 
bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu ;k rRle; ykxw fdlh vU; fofèk ds vèkhu dh tk ldrh gS] ij

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1383
çfrdwy çHkko Mkys fcuk ,sls O;fDr dks ,slh jhfr] tks fofgr dh tk,] esa jftLVj dj
ldsxkA
¼9½ mièkkjk ¼1½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh&&
¼d½ la;qDr jk"Vª laxBu dk dksbZ fof'k"V vfHkdj.k ;k la;qDr jk"Vª ¼fo'ks"kkfèkdkj
vkSj mUeqfDr;ka½ vfèkfu;e] 1947 ¼1947 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 46½] ds
vèkhu vfèklwfpr cgqik'oZ foÙkh; laLFkk vkSj laxBu] fons'kh ns'kksa ds
dkSaly&dk;kZy; ;k jktnwrkokl ( vkSj
¼[k½ ,sls vU; O;fDr ;k O;fDr;ksa ds oxZ] tks vk;qDr }kjk vfèklwfpr fd;k
tk,]
dks ,slh jhfr esa vkSj ,sls ç;kstuksa ds fy,] ftlesa muds }kjk çkIr ekyksa ;k lsokvksa vFkok
nksuksa ds vfèklwfpr çnk; 'kkfey gSa ij djksa dk çfrnk;] tSlk fofgr fd;k tk,] fof'k"V
igpku la[;k çnku dh tk,xhA
¼10½ 
vkSj ,slh vofèk ds Hkhrj] tks fofgr dh tk,] çnku dh tk,xh ;k ukeatwj dh tk,xhA
¼11½ 
ykxw gksxk] tks fofgr dh tk,aA
¼12½ dksbZ 
fofgr vofèk ds lekIr gksus ds i'pkr~ çnku dh x;h le>h tk,xh] ;fn vkosnd dks ml
vofèk ds Hkhrj dksbZ deh lalwfpr ugha dh tkrh gSA
26- 26- 26- 26- 26- ¼1½ dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] MhEM 
ds vèkhu 
gq, fd 
èkkjk 25 dh mièkkjk ¼10½ esa ;FkkfofufnZ"V le; ds Hkhrj ukeatwj ugha fd;k x;k gS] bl
vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu 
¼2½ èkkjk 25 dh mièkkjk ¼10½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] dsaæh; eky
vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] ds vèkhu 
;k fof'k"V igpku la[;k ds fy, vkosnu dk ukeatwj fd;k tkuk] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu

27- 27- 27- 27- 27- ¼1½ uSfefRrd djkèks; O;fDr ;k vfuoklh djkèks; O;fDr dks tkjh fd;k x;k uSfefRrd djkèks;

lacafèkr fo'ks"k
fofèkekU; gksxk vkSj ,slk O;fDr dsoy 
djkèks; çnk; djsxk %

1384 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
ijarq leqfpr vfèkdkjh] i;kZIr dkj.kksa ls tks mDr djkèks; O;fDr }kjk n'kkZ,
tk,] mDr uCcs fnu dh vofèk dks uCcs fnu ls vufèkd dh vkSj vofèk ds fy, c<+k ldrk
gSA
¼2½ ,d uSfefRrd djkèks; O;fDr ;k vfuoklh djkèks; O;fDr èkkjk 25 dh
mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu 
ftlds fy, 
lerqY; jkf'k esa dj dk vfxze fu{ksi djsxk %
ijarq tgka mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu le; dk dksbZ foLrkj pkgk x;k gS] ,slk
djkèks; O;fDr] ,slh vofèk ftlds fy, 
çkDdfyr dj nkf;Ro ds lerqY; dj dh vfrfjDr jkf'k fu{ksi djsxkA
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu fu{ksi dh xbZ jkf'k] ,sls O;fDr ds bySDVªkfud udn
[kkrs esa tek dh tk,xh vkSj èkkjk 49 ds vèkhu micafèkr jhfr esa mi;ksx esa yh tk,xhA

la'kksèkuA dh xbZ gS] jftLVªs~'ku ds le; ;k rRi'pkr~ nh xbZ lwpuk esa fdlh ifjorZu dks ,sls ç:i
,slh jhfr esa vkSj ,slh vofèk ds Hkhrj tks fofgr dh tk,] leqfpr vfèkdkjh dks lwfpr
djsxkA
¼2½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh] mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu nh xbZ ;k mlds }kjk vfHkfuf'pr
dh xbZ lwpuk ds vkèkkj ij] 
Hkhrj tks fofgr dh tk,] la'kksèkuksa dk vuqeksnu dj ldrk gS ;k ukeatwj dj ldrk gS%
ijarq ,slh fof'kf"V;ksa tks fofgr dh tk,a] ds la'kksèku ds lEcU/k esa leqfpr
vfèkdkjh dk vuqeksnu visf{kr ugha gksxk %
ijarq ;g vkSj fd leqfpr vfèkdkjh 
fy, vkosnu dks fdlh O;fDr dks lquokbZ dk volj fn, fcuk ukeatwj ugha djsxkA
¼3½ dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½]
ds vèkhu la'kksèkuksa dk dksbZ ukeatwj ;k vuqeksnu fd;k tkuk bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu
vuqeksnu dk fd;k tkuk le>k tk,xkA

jn~ndj.kA dh e`R;q gks tkus dh n'kk esa] mlds fofèkd okfjlksa }kjk nkf[ky fd, x, vkosnu ij] ,slh
jhfr esa vkSj ,slh vofèk ds Hkhrj tks fofgr dh tk,] ,slh ifjfLFkfr;ksa dks è;ku esa j[krs
gq, 
¼d½ dkjckj fdUgha dkj.kksa ls ftlesa LoRoèkkjh dh e`R;q] fdlh vU; fofèkd
lÙkk ds lkFk lekesyu] fufoZy;u ;k vU;Fkk fuiVku Hkh lfEefyr gS]
can dj fn;k gS] iwjh rjg ls varfjr dj fn;k x;k gS ( ;k

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1385
¼[k½ dkjckj ds xBu esa dksbZ ifjorZu gqvk gS ( ;k
¼x½ èkkjk 25 dh mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu 
djkèks; O;fDr] èkkjk 22 ;k 24 ds vèkhu 
vf/kd nk;h ugha gSA
¼2½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh] ,slh frfFk] ftlds varxZr fdlh Hkwry{kh frfFk ls tSlk og
mfpr le>s] fdlh O;fDr dk 
¼d½ 
,sls micaèkksa dk mYya?ku fd;k gS] tks fofgr fd, tk,a ( ;k
¼[k½ èkkjk 10 ds vèkhu dj vnk djus okys fdlh O;fDr us] rhu ØeorÊ
dj vofèk;ksa rd fooj.kh ugha nh gS ( ;k
¼x½ [kaM ¼[k½ esa fofufnZ"V O;fDr ls fHkUu fdlh 
yxkrkj Ng ekl dh vofèk rd fooj.kh ugha nh gS ( ;k
¼?k½ dksbZ O;fDr] ftlus èkkjk 25 dh mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu LoSPN;k 
djk;k gS] 
ugha fd;k gS ( ;k
¼³½ 
rF;ksa dks fNikdj çkIr fd;k x;k gS %
ijarq leqfpr vfèkdkjh fdlh O;fDr dks lquokbZ dk volj fn, fcuk

¼3½ bl /kkjk ds v/khu 
vf/kfu;e ds v/khu dj vkSj vU; 'kks/; ds Hkqxrku ds nkf;Ro ;k bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds
vèkhu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu] jn~ndj.k dh frfFk ls igys fdlh vofèk ds fy,] voèkkfjr
dksbZ dj ;k vU; 'kks/; pkgs ,slk dj vkSj vU; 'kks/;] jn~ndj.k dh frfFk ls igys ;k
i'pkr~ voèkkfjr fd, tkrs gSa] ds Hkqxrku ds nkf;Ro dh fdlh ck/;rk ds fuoZgu ij çHkko
ugha MkysxkA
¼4½ dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½]
ds vèkhu 
fd;k tkuk le>k tk,xkA
¼5½ çR;sd 
çR;; [kkrk ;k bySDVªkfud udn [kkrs esa fodyu ds ekè;e ls ,slh jkf'k dk Hkqxrku
djsxk tks jn~ndj.k dh ,slh frfFk ls Bhd iwoZ fnu dks LVkWd esa èkkfjr fuos'k ds lacaèk
esa buiqV dj vkSj LVkWd esa èkkfjr v)Z&rS;kj ;k rS;kj eky esa fn, x, fuos'k ;k iwath
eky ;k la;a= vkSj e'khujh ;k ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk, laxf.kr ,sls eky ij
Hkqxrku;ksX; vkmViqV dj] tks Hkh vfèkd gks] dj çR;; ds lerqY; gS %

1386 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
ijarq iwatheky ;k la;a= vkSj e'khujh ds ekeys esa djkèks; O;fDr mDr iwatheky
;k la;a= vkSj e'khujh ij fy, x, buiqV dj çR;; ds leku ,slh jkf'k dk Hkqxrku djsxk
tks ,sls çfr'krrk fcUnq tks fofgr fd, tk,a] ls ?kVkdj vk;s ;k èkkjk 15 ds vèkhu ,sls
iwath eky ;k la;a= vkSj e'khujh ds laO;ogkj ewY; ij dj] tks Hkh vfèkd gks] Hkqxrku
djsxkA
¼6½ mièkkjk ¼5½ ds vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX; jkf'k ,slh jhfr esa tks fofgr dh tk,]
laxf.kr dh tk,xhA

jn~ndj.k dk ftldk 
çfrlagj.kA vkns'k dh rkehy dh frfFk ls rhl fnu ds Hkhrj ,sls vfèkdkjh dks fofgr jhfr esa 
ds jn~ndj.k ds çfrlagj.k ds fy, vkosnu dj ldrk gSA
¼2½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh] ,slh jhfr esa vkSj ,slh vofèk esa tks fofgr dh tk,] vkns'k
}kjk ;k rks 
dj ldrk gS %
ijarq 
volj fn, fcuk ukeatwj ugha fd;k tk,xkA
¼3½ dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½]
ds vèkhu 
ds jn~ndj.k dk çfrlagj.k ds :i esa le>k tk,xkA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1387
vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; VII
dj chtd] tek i= vkSj ukes i= dj chtd] tek i= vkSj ukes i= dj chtd] tek i= vkSj ukes i= dj chtd] tek i= vkSj ukes i= dj chtd] tek i= vkSj ukes i=
31- 31- 31- 31- 31- ¼1½ djkèks; ekyksa dk çnk; djus okyk 
ml le; ij]&
¼d½ çkfIrdrkZ dk çnk;] tgka çnk; esa ekyksa dk lapyu varoZfyr gS] ds
fy, eky dks gVk,xk( ;k
¼[k½ fdlh vU; ekeys esa] ekyksa dk ifjnku djsxk ;k çkfIrdrkZ dks mUgsa
miyC/k djk,xk]
eky dh fdLe] o.kZu] ek=k vkSj ewY;] ml ij izHkkfjr dj vkSj ,slh vU; fof'kf"V;ka tks
fofgr dh tk,a] n'kkZus okyk dj chtd tkjh djsxk%
ijarq ljdkj] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'k ij] vfèklwpuk }kjk] ekyksa ;k çnk;ksa ds izoxksZa dks
fofufnZ"V dj ldsxh ftuds laca/k esa ,sls le; esa vkSj ,slh jhfr esa tks fofgr dh tk,]
dj chtd tkjh fd;k tk,xkA
¼2½ djkèks; lsokvksa dk çnk; djus okyk 
iwoZ ;k i'pkr~ ijarq fofgr vofèk ds Hkhrj] o.kZu] ewY;] ml ij izHkkfjr dj vkSj ,slh vU;
fof’kf"V;ka tks fofgr dh tk,a] n'kkZus okyk dj chtd tkjh djsxk%
ijarq ljdkj] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij vfèklwpuk }kjk vkSj mlesa mfYyf[kr 'krksZa
ds vè;èkhu jgrs gq, lsokvksa ds çoxksZa dks fofufnZ"V djsxh] ftuds laca/k esa]&
¼d½ çnk; ds lacaèk esa tkjh fd;k x;k dksbZ vU; nLrkost dj chtd le>k
tk,xk( ;k
¼[k½ dj chtd tkjh u fd;k tk,A
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼1½ vkSj ¼2½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh]&&
¼d½ 
,d ekl ds Hkhrj vkSj ,slh jhfr esa tks fofgr dh tk,] 
ds çHkkoh gksus dh frfFk ls çkjaHk gksus vkSj mls 
tkjh djus dh frfFk rd dh vofèk ds nkSjku igys ls tkjh chtd ds
fo#) iqujhf{kr chtd tkjh dj ldsxk(
¼[k½ 
vè;èkhu jgrs gq, dj chtd tkjh ugha djsxk ;fn ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k
nksuksa ds çnk; dk ewY; nks lkS :i, ls de gS (
¼x½ NwV çkIr ekyksa vkSj lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk; djus okyk ;k èkkjk 10
ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu dj Hkqxrku djus okyk 
chtd ds ctk; ,slh fof'kf"V;ka varfoZ"V djus okyk vkSj ,slh jhfr esa
tks fofgr dh tk,] ,d çnk; dk fcy tkjh djsxk%
ijUrq 
jhfr esa tks fofgr dh tk,] çnk; dk fcy tkjh djus ds fy, ck/; ugha
gksxk] ;fn çnk; fd;k x;k eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk ewY; nks lkS
#i, ls de gS (

1388 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼?k½ dksbZ 
laca/k esa vfxze Hkqxrku dh çkfIr ij ,sls Hkqxrku ds lk{;Lo:i ,slh
fof'kf"V;ksa ls varfoZ"V tks fofgr dh tk,a] dksbZ jlhn] okmpj ;k dksbZ
vU; nLrkost+ tkjh djsxk (
¼³½ tgka] eky ;k lsok,a ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds lacaèk esa vfxze Hkqxrku dh
izkfIr ij 
RkRi'pkr~ dksbZ çnk; ugha fd;k tkrk gS vkSj mlds vuqlj.k esa dksbZ
dj chtd tkjh ugha fd;k tkrk gS] mDr 
Hkqxrku fd;k gS] ,sls Hkqxrku ds fo#) dksbZ çfrnk; okmpj tkjh djsxk(
¼p½ dksbZ 
Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h gS] mlds }kjk fdlh ,sls çnk;drkZ ls] tks

;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds lacaèk esa ,d chtd tkjh djsxk(
¼N½ dksbZ 
Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h gS] çnk;drkZ] dks lank; djrs le; ,d
Hkqxrku okmpj tkjh djsxkA
¼4½ eky ds fujarj çnk; dh n'kk esa] tgka ys[ksa ds Øeokj fooj.k ;k Øeokj
Hkqxrku varoZfyr gSa] ogka chtd] çR;sd ,sls fooj.k tkjh djus ls iwoZ ;k tSlh Hkh fLFkfr
gks] çR;sd ,slk Hkqxrku çkIr fd;k tkrk gSA
¼5½ mièkkjk ¼3½ ds [kaM ¼?k½ ds micaèkksa ds vè;/khu lsokvksa ds fujarj çnk; dh
n'kk esa]&
¼d½ tgka Hkqxrku dh fu;r frfFk dk lafonk ls irk yxk;k tk ldrk gS] ogka
chtd Hkqxrku dh ns; frfFk dks ;k mlls iwoZ tkjh fd;k tk,xk(
¼[k½ tgka Hkqxrku dh ns; frfFk dk lafonk ls irk ugha yxk;k tk ldrk gS]
ogka chtd ml le; tc lsokvksa dk çnk;drkZ Hkqxrku izkIr djrk gS]
tkjh fd;k tk,xk (
¼x½ tgka Hkqxrku fdlh ?kVuk ds iwjk gksus ls tksM+k x;k gS] ogka chtd ml
?kVuk ds iwjk gksus dh frfFk dks ;k mlls iwoZ tkjh fd;k tk,xkA
¼6½ fdlh ,sls ekeys esa tgka fdlh lafonk ds vèkhu çnk; ds iwjk gksus ls iwoZ lsokvksa
dk çnk; can gks tkrk gS] ogka chtd ,sls le; ij tkjh fd;k tk,xk tc çnk; can gksrk
gS vkSj ,slk chtd ,slh canh ls iwoZ fd, x, çnk; dh lhek rd tkjh fd;k tk,xkA
¼7½ mièkkjk ¼1½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] tgka foØ; ;k okilh ds fy,
vuqeksnu ij Hkstk tk jgk ;k fy;k tk jgk eky çnk; fd, tkus ls iwoZ gVk;k tkrk gS]
ogka chtd] çnk; ls iwoZ vFkok le; ;k gVk, tkus dh frfFk ls Ng ekl rd] tks Hkh iwoZrj
gks] tkjh fd;k tk,xkA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1389
O;k[;k&& O;k[;k&& O;k[;k&&bl èkkjk ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, Þdj chtdß esa vfHkO;Dr fd, x, O;k[;k&& O;k[;k&&
çnk; ds laca/k esa çnk;drkZ }kjk tkjh dksbZ iqujhf{kr chtd 'kkfey
gksxkA
32- 32- 32- 32- 32- ¼1½ dksbZ O;fDr tks 
çnk; ds laca/k esa bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj ds :i esa dksbZ jkf’k lax`ghr ugha djsxkA laxzg.k dk çfr"ksèkA
¼2½ bl vfèkfu;e ;k mlds vèkhu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj ds
flok;] dksbZ 
33- 33- 33- 33- 33- bl vfèkfu;e esa ;k rRle; ço`Ùk fdlh vU; fofèk esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs dj chtd vkSj vU;
gq, Hkh tgka dksbZ çnk; fdlh çfrQy ds fy, fd;k tkrk gS] ogka çR;sd O;fDr tks ,sls nLrkostksa esa dj dh
jkf’k dk min’kZuA
çnk; ds fy, dj Hkqxrku djus dk nk;h gS] fuèkkZj.k ls lacafèkr lHkh nLrkostksa] dj chtd
vkSj vU; ,sls vU; nLrkost esa] dj dh jkf’k tks ml dher dk Hkkx gksxh ftl ij ,slk
çnk; fd;k tkrk gSS] çeq[kr% minf'kZr djsxkA
34- 34- 34- 34- 34- ¼1½ tgka fdlh eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds fy, dksbZ dj chtd tkjh tek vkSj ukes i=A
fd;k x;k gS vkSj ml dj chtd esa çHkkfjr dj ;ksX; ewY; ;k izHkkfjr dj ,sls çnk;
ds lacaèk esa dj ;ksX; ewY; ;k Hkqxrku;ksX; dj ls vfèkd ik;k tkrk gS ;k tgka izkIrdrkZ
}kjk çnk; fd, x, eky dks okil fd;k tkrk gS ;k tgka çnk; fd, x, eky ;k lsokvksa
;k nksuksa esa deh ikbZ tkrh gS] ogka 
dk çnk; fd;k gS] izkfIrdrkZ dks ,slh fof'kf"V;ksa] tks fofgr dh tk,a] ls varfoZ"V teki=
tkjh dj ldsxkA
¼2½ dksbZ 
tek i= tkjh djrk gS] ,sls tek i= ds C;kSjs ml ekl dh fooj.kh esa ?kksf"kr djsxk ftlds
nkSjku ,slk tek i= tkjh fd;k x;k gS ijarq ml foÙkh; o"kZ ftlesa ,slk çnk; fd;k x;k
Fkk] ds i'pkr~ flracj ekl ;k lqlaxr okf"kZd fooj.kh izLrqr djus dh frfFk] tks Hkh iwoZrj
gks ds i'pkRk~ rFkk dj nkf;Ro ,slh jhfr] tks fofgr dh tk,] esa lek;ksftr fd;k tk,xk%
ijarq çnk;drkZ ds vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro esa dksbZ deh vuqKkr ugha dh tk,xh ;fn
,sls çnk; ij dj vkSj C;kt dk çHkko fdlh vU; O;fDr dks ikl fd;k x;k gSA
¼3½ tgka fdlh eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds fy, dksbZ dj chtd tkjh
fd;k x;k gS vkSj ml dj chtd esa dj ;ksX; ewY; ;k çHkkfjr dj ,sls çnk; ds lacaèk
esa dj ;ksX; ewY; ;k Hkqxrku;ksX; dj ls de ik;k tkrk gS] ogka 
,sls eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk; fd;k gS çkIrdrkZ dks ,slh fof'kf"V;ka tks fofgr
dh tk,] varfoZ"V djrs gq, ukes i= tkjh djsxkA
¼4½ dksbZ 
ukes i= tkjh djrk gS] ,sls ukesi= ds C;kSjs ml ekl dh fooj.kh esa] ftlds nkSjku ,slk
ukes i= tkjh fd;k x;k gS] ?kksf"kr djsxk vkSj dj nkf;Ro] ,slh jhfr esa tks fofgr dh tk,]
lek;ksftr djsxkA
O;k[;k & O;k[;k & O;k[;k & bl vfèkfu;e ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, Þukes i=ß vfHkO;fDr essa iwjd chtd O;k[;k & O;k[;k &
'kkfey gSa A

1390 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; VIII
ys[ks vkSj vfHkys[k ys[ks vkSj vfHkys[k ys[ks vkSj vfHkys[k ys[ks vkSj vfHkys[k ys[ks vkSj vfHkys[k
ys[ks vkSj vU; 35- 35- 35- 35- 35- ¼1½ çR;sd 
vfHkys[kA ds çek.ki= esa]&
¼d½ eky ds mRiknu vkSj fofuekZ.k(
¼[k½ eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk vkod vkSj tkod çnk;(
¼x½ eky dk LVkWd (
¼?k½ çkIr fd;k x;k buiqV dj çR;; (
¼³½ Hkqxrku;ksX; vkSj Hkqxrku fd;k x;k vkmViqV dj ( vkSj
¼p½ ,slh vU; fof’kf"V;ka tks fofgr dh tk,a]
ds lR; vkSj 'kq) ys[ks j[ksxk vkSj vuqjf{kr djsxk%
ijarq tgka 
fd;k x;k gS] ogka dkjckj ds çR;sd LFkku ls lacafèkr ys[ks dkjckj ds ,sls LFkkuksa esa j[ks
tk,axs%
ijarq ;g vkSj fd 
:i esa ,slh jhfr esa tks fofgr dh tk,] j[k ldsxk vkSj vuqjf{kr dj ldsxkA
¼2½ HkkaMkxkj ;k xksnke ;k eky ds HkaMkj.k ds fy, mi;ksx esa yk;k x;k fdlh vU;
LFkku dk çR;ssd Lokeh ;k v‚ijsVj vkSj çR;ssd ifjokgd] pkgs og 
;k ugha] izs"kd] izsf"krh vkSj ,sls eky ds vU; lqlaxr C;kSjs ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,]
ds vfHkys[k j[ksxkA
¼3½ vk;qDr] ,sls ç;kstu tks mlesa fofufnZ"V fd, tk,a] ds fy, vfrfjä ys[ks ;k
nLrkost vuqjf{kr djus ds fy, djk/ks; O;fDr;ksa dk oxZ vfèklwfpr dj ldsxkA
¼4½ tgka vk;qDr le>rk gS fd djk/ks; O;fDr;ksa dk dksbZ oxZ bl èkkjk ds micaèkksa
ds vuqlkj ys[ks j[kus vkSj vuqjf{kr djus dh fLFkfr esa ugha gS] ogka og dkj.kksa dks vfHkfyf[kr
djrs gq, djk/ks; O;fDr;ksa ds ,sls oxZ dks ys[kksa dks ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,a]
vuqjf{kr djus ds fy, vuqKkr dj ldrk gS A
¼5½ çR;sd 
lhek ls vfèkd gksrk gS] vius ys[ks fdlh pkVZMZ vdkÅaVsaV ;k ykxr ys[kkdkj }kjk laijhf{kr
djok,xk vkSj laijhf{kr okf"kZd ys[kksa dh ,d çfr] èkkjk 44 dh mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1391
lekèkku fooj.k vkSj ,sls vU; nLrkost ,sls ç:i vkSj jhfr esa çLrqr djsxk] tks fofgr
dh tk,A
¼6½ èkkjk 17 dh mièkkjk ¼5½ ds [kaM ¼t½ ds micaèkksa ds vè;èkhu tgka 
O;fä mièkkjk ¼1½ ds mica/kksa ds vuqlkj eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk ys[kk nsus esa foQy
jgrk gS] ogka leqfpr vfèkdkjh eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ftldk ys[kk ugha fn;k x;k gS]
ij Hkqxrku;ksX; dj dh jkf’k] voèkkfjr djsxk] ekuks ,slk eky ;k lsok,a ;k nksuksa dk ,sls
O;fDr }kjk çnk; fd;k x;k Fkk vkSj] ;FkkfLFkfr] èkkjk 73 ;k 74 ds micaèk ,sls dj ds
voèkkj.k ds fy, vko';d ifjorZu lfgr ykxw gksaxsA
36- 36- 36- 36- 36- èkkjk 35 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds mica/kksa ds vuqlkj ys[kksa dh cfg;ksa vkSj vU; vfHkys[kksa ys[kksa ds çfrèkkj.k
dks j[kus vkSj vuqjf{kr djus ds fy, visf{kr çR;sd 
vkSj vfHkys[kksa ls lacafèkr o"kZ ds fy, okf"kZd fooj.kh nk;j djus dh fu;r frfFk ls cgRrj
ekl dh lekfIr rd çfrèkkj.k djsxk(
iajrq çR;sd 
vihy vfèkdj.k ;k U;k;ky; ds le{k fdlh vihy ;k iqujh{k.k ;k fdlh vU; dk;Zokgh
pkgs mlds }kjk ;k vk;qDr }kjk izLrqr dh xbZ gks] esa dksbZ i{kdkj gS] ;k vè;k; XIX
ds vèkhu fdlh vijkèk ds fy, vUos"k.kkèkhu gS] ,slh vihy ;k iqujh{k.k ;k dk;Zokgh ;k
vUos"k.k dh fo"k;oLrq ls lacafèkr ys[kkcfg;ksa vkSj vU; vfHkys[kksa dks ,slh vihy ;k iqujh{k.k
;k dk;Zokgh ;k vUos"k.k ds vafre fuiVku ds i'pkr~ ,d o"kZ dh vofèk ds fy, ;k Åij
fofufnZ"V vofèk ds fy,] tks Hkh i'pkRorÊ gks] ds fy, vius vf/kdkj esa j[ksxkA

1392 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; IX
foojf.k;ka foojf.k;ka foojf.k;ka foojf.k;ka foojf.k;ka
tkod çnk;ksa ds 37- 37- 37- 37- 37- ¼1½ fdlh buiqV lsok forjd] fdlh vfuoklh dj ;ksX; O;fDr vkSj èkkjk 10] èkkjk
C;kSjs nsukA 51 ;k èkkjk 52 ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu dj Hkqxrku djus okys fdlh O;fDr ls vU;Fkk çR;sd

dj vofèk ds nkSjku eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dh] fd, x, tkod çnk;ksa ds C;kSjs mDr
dj vofèk ds mRrjorhZ ekl ds 10osa fnu ls iwoZ nsxk vkSj ,sls C;kSjs mDr çnk;ksa ds
çkfIrdrkZ dks ,slh le;kofèk ds Hkhrj vkSj ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] lalwfpr fd,
tk,axs%
ijarq 
dh vofèk ds nkSjku tkod çnk;ksa ds C;kSjs nsus ds fy, vuqKkr ugha gksxk%
ijarq ;g vkSj fd vk;qDr] dkj.kksa dks vfHkfyf[kr djrs gq, vfèklwpuk }kjk djk/ks;
O;fDr ds ,sls oxZ] tks mlesa fofufnZ"V fd, tk,a] ds fy, ,sls C;kSjs nsus ds fy, le; lhek
dk foLrkj dj ldsxk %
ijarq ;g vkSj fd dsaæh; dj vk;qDr }kjk vfèklwfpr le; lhek dk dksbZ foLrkj]
vk;qDr }kjk vfèklwfpr fd;k x;k le>k tk,xkA
¼2½ çR;sd 
èkkjk 38 dh mièkkjk ¼4½ ds vèkhu buiqV lsok forjd dh vkod çnk;ksa ls lacafèkr C;kSjs
lalwfpr fd, x, gSa] 17osa fnu dks ;k blls iwoZ bl çdkj lalwfpr C;kSjs dks Lohdkj ;k
vLohdkj djsxk] ijarq dj vofèk ds mÙkjorÊ ekl ds 15osa fnu ls iwoZ ugha] rFkk mlds
}kjk mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fn, x, C;kSjs rnuqlkj la'kksfèkr gks tk,axsA
¼3½ dksbZ 
C;kSjs fn, gSa vkSj tks èkkjk 42 ;k èkkjk 43 ds vèkhu cs&feyku jg x, gSa] mlesa fdlh =qfV
;k yksi dk irk yxus ij ,slh =qfV ;k yksi dk ,slh jhfr esa tks fofgr dh tk,] ,slh dj
vofèk ds fy, nh tkus okyh fooj.kh esa lqèkkj djsxk] rFkk ;fn ,slh =qfV ;k yksi ds dkj.k
dj dk de Hkqxrku gqvk gS rks dj vkSj C;kt] ;fn dksbZ gks] dk Hkqxrku djsxk %
ijarq mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fn, x, C;kSjs ds lacaèk esa =qfV ;k yksi dk dksbZ lqèkkj
ml foÙkh; o"kZ] ftlls ,sls C;kSjs lacafèkr gSa] ds var ds i'pkr~ flracj ekl ds fy, èkkjk
39 ds vèkhu fooj.kh nsus ;k lqlaxr okf"kZd fooj.kh nsus] tks Hkh iwoZrj gS] ds i'pkr~ vuqKkr
ugha fd;k tk,xkA
O;k[;k & O;k[;k & O;k[;k & bl vè;k; ds ç;kstu ds fy,] Þtkod çnk;ksa ds C;kSjsß vfHkO;fDr esa O;k[;k & O;k[;k &
fdlh dj&vofèk ds nkSjku fd, x, tkod çnk;ksa ds lacaèk esa tkjh
chtd] ukes i=] tek i= vkSj iqujhf{kr chtd ds C;kSjs 'kkfey gSaA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1393
38- 38- 38- 38- 38- ¼1½ fdlh buiqV lsok forjd ;k fdlh vfuoklh dj ;ksX; O;fDr ;k èkkjk 10] èkkjk vkod çnk;ksa ds
51 ;k èkkjk 52 ds micèkksa ds vèkhu dj Hkqxrku djus okys fdlh O;fDr ls vU;Fkk çR;sd C;kSjs nsukA

èkkjk 37 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu lalwfpr tkod çnk;ksa vkSj tek ;k ukes i=ksa ls lacafèkr
C;kSjs lR;kfir djsxk] fofèkekU; djsxk] mikarfjr djsxk ;k gVk,xk] ;fn visf{kr gks vkSj
mlesa ,sls çnk;ksaa] tks èkkjk 37 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu çnk;drkZ }kjk ?kksf"kr ugha fd,
x, gSa] ds laca/k esa çkIr vkod çnk;ksa vkSj tek ;k ukes i=ksa ds C;kSjs lfEefyr dj ldsxkA
¼2½ fdlh buiqV lsok forjd ;k fdlh vfuoklh djk/ks; O;fDr ;k èkkjk 10] èkkjk
51 ;k èkkjk 52 ds micèkksa ds vèkhu dj Hkqxrku djus okys fdlh O;fDr ls vU;Fkk çR;sd

;k nksuksa] ds vkod çnk;ksa ftlesa eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds ftlesa ,sls vkod çnk;] ftu
ij bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu foijhr vkèkkj ij dj Hkqxrku 'kkfey gS rFkk ,dhd`r eky
vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼ 2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 13½] ds vèkhu eky ;k lsok
;k nksuksa ds vkod djk/ks; çnk; ;k ftu ij lhek 'kqYd VSfjQ vfèkfu;e] 1975 ¼1975
dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 51½] dh èkkjk 3 ds vèkhu lefUor eky vkSj lsok dj Hkqxrku;ksX;
gS] vkSj ,slh çnk;ksa ds lacaèk esa çkIr tek ;k ukes i=ksa mDr dj vofèk ds mÙkjorÊ ekl
ds 10osa fnu ds i'pkr~ ijarq 15osa fnu ls iwoZ ,sls ç:i vkSj jhfr esa tks fofgr dh tk,]
ds C;kSjs nsxk%
ijarq vk;qDr] dkj.kksa dks vfHkfyf[kr djrs gq, vfèklwpuk }kjk dj ;ksX; O;fDr] ds
,sls oxZ tks mlesa fofufnZ"V fd, tk,a] ds fy, ,sls C;kSjs nsus ds fy, le; lhek dk foLrkj
dj ldrk gS %
ijarq ;g vkSj fd dsaæh; dj ds vk;qDr }kjk vfèklwfpr le;&lhek dk dksbZ foLrkj
vk;qDr }kjk vfèklwfpr fd;k x;k le>k tk,xkA
¼3½ çkfIrdrkZ }kjk mikarfjr] gVkbZ xbZ ;k lfEefyr fd, x, çnk;ksa vkSj mièkkjk
¼2½ ds vèkhu fn, x, C;kSjs] lacafèkr çnk;drkZ dks ,slh jhfr esa vkSj ,slh vofèk ds Hkhrj]
tks fofgr dh tk,] lalwfpr fd, tk,axsA
¼4½ èkkjk 39 dh mièkkjk ¼2½ ;k mièkkjk ¼4½ ds vèkhu çkIrdrkZ }kjk nh xbZ fooj.kh
esa mikarfjr] gVk, x, ;k lfEefyr fd, x, çnk;ksa ds C;kSjs lacafèkr çnk;drkZ dks ,slh
jhfr esa vkSj ,slh vofèk ds Hkhrj] tks fofgr dh tk,] lalwfpr fd, tk,axsA
¼5½ dksbZ 
C;kSjs fn, gSa vkSj tks èkkjk 42 ;k èkkjk 43 ds vèkhu cs&feyku jg x, gSa] mlesa fdlh =qfV
;k yksi dk irk yxus ij ,slh =qfV ;k yksi dk ,slh jhfr esa tks fofgr dh tk,] ,slh dj
vofèk ds fy, nh tkus okyh fooj.kh esa lqèkkj djsxk] rFkk ;fn ,slh =qfV ;k yksi ds dkj.k
dj dk de Hkqxrku gqvk gS rks dj vkSj C;kt] ;fn dksbZ gks] dk Hkqxrku djsxk %

1394 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
ijarq mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu fn, x, C;kSjs ds lacaèk esa =qfV ;k yksi dk dksbZ lqèkkj
ml foÙkh; o"kZ] ftlls ,sls C;kSjs lacafèkr gSa] ds var ds i'pkr~ flracj ekl ds fy, èkkjk
39 ds vèkhu fooj.kh nsus ;k lqlaxr okf"kZd fooj.kh nsus] tks Hkh iwoZrj gS] ds i'pkr~ vuqKkr
ugha fd;k tk,xkA
foojf.k;ka nsukA 39- 39- 39- 39- 39- ¼1½ fdlh buiqV lsok forjd ;k fdlh vfuoklh dj ;ksX; O;fDr ;k èkkjk 10] èkkjk
51 ;k èkkjk 52 ds micèkksa ds vèkhu dj Hkqxrku djus okys fdlh O;fDr ls vU;Fkk çR;sd

eky ;k lsok ;k nksuksa ds vkod vkSj tkod çnk;ksa] çkIr buiqV dj çR;;] Hkqxrku;ksX;
dj] Hkqxrku fd;k x;k dj vkSj vU; ,slh fof'kf"V;ka tks fofgr dh tk,a] ,sls dySaMj ekl
;k mlds fdlh Hkkx ds mÙkjorÊ ekl ds 20osa fnu ;k blls iwoZ ,sls ç:i vkSj jhfr esa
tks fofgr dh tk,] fooj.kh nsxkA
¼2½ èkkjk 10 ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu dj Hkqxrku djus okyk dksbZ 
çR;ssd frekgh ;k mlds fdlh Hkkx ds fy, ,sls ç:i esa vkSj ,slh jhfr esa tks fofgr dh
tk,] jkT; esa vkorZ ds fdlh eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds vkod çnk;ksa] Hkqxrku;ksX; dj
vkSj Hkqxrku fd, x, dj dh bySDVªksfud :i esa fooj.kh] çR;sd frekgh dh lekfIr ds
i'pkr~ 18 fnu ds Hkhrj Hkqxrku djsxkA
¼3½ èkkjk 51 ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu lzksr ij dj dh dVkSrh djus ds fy, visf{kr
çR;sd 
ftlesa ,slh dVkSrh dh xbZ gS] ,sls ekl dh lekfIr ds i'pkr~ 10 fnu ds Hkhrj] bysDVªksfud
:i esa] fooj.kh nsxkA
¼4½ fdlh buiqV lsok forjd ds :i esa 
dySaMj ekl ;k mlds Hkkx ds fy, ,sls ç:i vkSj jhfr esa tks fofgr dh tk,] ,sls ekl
dh lekfIr ds i'pkr~ 13 fnu ds Hkhrj bysDVªksfud :i esa fooj.kh nsxkA
¼5½ çR;sd 
Hkkx ds fy, ,sls ç:i vkSj jhfr esa tks fofgr dh tk, dySaMj ekl ds var ds i'pkr~ 20
fnu ds Hkhrj ;k èkkjk 27 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fofufnZ"V 
vafre fnu ds i'pkr~ lkr fnu ds Hkhrj] tks Hkh iwoZrj gks] bysDVªksfud :i esa] fooj.kh
nsxkA
¼6½ vk;qDr] dkj.kksa dks vfHkfyf[kr djrs gq,] vfèklwpuk }kjk bl èkkjk ds vèkhu

ds fy, le;&lhek foLrkfjr dj ldsxk %
ijarq dsaæh; dj vk;qDr ds }kjk vfèklwfpr le;&lhek dk dksbZ foLrkj vk;qDr
}kjk vfèklwfpr fd;k x;k le>k tk,xkA
¼7½ çR;sd 
;k mièkkjk ¼5½ ds vèkhu dksbZ fooj.kh izLrqr djus dh vis{kk dh xbZ gS] ,slh fooj.kh ds

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1395
vuqlkj ns; dj] frfFk ftldks mlls ,slh fooj.kh nsus dh vafre frfFk] ls vi'pkr~ vis{kk
dh xbZ gS] ljdkj dks Hkqxrku djsxkA
¼8½ çR;sd 
fooj.kh nsus dh vis{kk dh tkrh gS] çR;sd dj vofèk ds fy, fooj.kh nsxk] pkgs eky ;k
lsok ;k nksuksa dk dksbZ çnk; ,slh dj vofèk ds nkSjku fd;k x;k gS ;k ughaA
¼9½ èkkjk 37 vkSj 38 ds micaèkksa ds vè;èkhu ;fn fdlh 
mièkkjk ¼1½ ;k mièkkjk ¼2½ ;k mièkkjk ¼3½ ;k mièkkjk ¼4½ ;k mièkkjk ¼5½ ds vèkhu fooj.kh
nsus ds i'pkRk] dj çkfèkdkfj;ksa }kjk laoh{kk] laijh{kk] fujh{k.k ;k çorZu fØ;kdyki ds
ifj.kkeLo:i ls vU;Fkk] mlesa fdlh yksi ;k v'kq) fof'kf"V;ksa dk irk pyrk gS rks og]
bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu C;kt ds Hkqxrku ds vè;èkhu] ml ekl ;k frekgh] ftlds nkSjku
,slk yksi ;k v'kq) fof'kf"V;ka è;ku esa vkbZ gSa] ds fy, nh tkus okyh fooj.kh esa ,sls yksi
;k v'kq) fof'kf"V;ksa dk lqèkkj djsxk%
ijarq foÙkh; o"kZ dh lekfIr ds i'pkr~ flracj ekl ds fy, ;k foÙkh; o"kZ dh lekfIr
ds i'pkr~ nwljh frekgh ds fy, fooj.kh nsus dh ns; frfFk ds ;k lqlaxr okf"kZd fooj.kh
nsus dh okLrfod frfFk] tks Hkh iwoZrj gks] ds i'pkr~ fdlh yksi ;k v'kq) fof'kf"V;ksa dk
,slk lqèkkj vuqKkr ugha fd;k tk,xkA
¼10½ fdlh 
vuqKkr ugha fd;k tk,xk] ;fn mlds }kjk fdlh iwoZorÊ dj vofèk ds fy, fooj.kh ugha
nh xbZ gSA
40- 40- 40- 40- 40- çR;sd 
cuk] ls ml frfFk rd ftldks mls 
iznk; fd, gSa] 
mldh ?kks"k.kk djsxkA
41- 41- 41- 41- 41- ¼1½ çR;sd 
vè;èkhu ;Fkk Lo%fuèkkZfjr] ik= buiqV dj] dk viuh fooj.kh esa izR;; ysus dk gdnkj dk nkok vkSj mldh
vuafUre Loh—frA
gksxk vkSj ,slh jkf’k vafre vkèkkj ij mldh bySDVªksfud [kkrs esa tek dh tk,xhA
¼2½ mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V tek dk mi;ksx dsoy mDr mièkkjk esa fufnZ"V fooj.kh
ds vuqlkj Lo%fuèkkZfjr vkmViqV dj ds Hkqxrku ds fy, fd;k tk,xkA
42- 42- 42- 42- 42- ¼1½ fdlh 
esa fufnZ"V fd;k x;k gS½ }kjk fdlh dj vofèk ds fy, fn, x, çR;sd vkod çnk; ds dk feyku] myVko
vkSj okil ysukA
C;kSjs dk&
¼d½ rRLFkkuh 
fd;k x;k gS½ }kjk mlh dj vofèk ;k fdlh iwoZorÊ dj vofèk ds fy, mldh
fofèkekU; fooj.kh esa nh xbZ tkod çnk; ds rRLFkkuh C;kSjs ds lkFk (

1396 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼[k½ mlds }kjk vk;kfrr eky ds lacaèk esa lhek 'kqYd VSfjQ vfèkfu;e] 1975
¼1975 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 51½] dh èkkjk 3 ds vèkhu Hkqxrku fd;k x;k
lefUor eky vkSj lsok dj ds lkFk( vkSj
¼x½ buiqV dj çR;; ds nkoksa ds vuqfyfidj.k ds fy,]
,slh jhfr esa vkSj ,slh vofèk ds Hkhrj tks fofgr dh tk,] feyku fd;k tk,xkA
¼2½ buiqV dj izR;; dk ,slk nkok ftlds laca/k esa vkod iznk; ds laca/k esa chtdksa
;k ukes i=ksa] tks rRLFkkuh tkod çnk; ds C;kSjksa ds lkFk ;k lhek 'kqYd VSfjQ vfèkfu;e]
1975 ¼1975 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 51½] dh èkkjk 3 ds vèkhu vk;kfrr eky ds lacaèk esa mlds
}kjk Hkqxrku lefUor eky vkSj lsok dj ds lkFk feyku gksrk gS] vafre :i ls Loh—r
fd;k tk,xk vkSj ,slh Loh—fr çkIrdrkZ dks ,slh jhfr esa tks fofgr dh tk,] lalwfpr dh
tk,xhA
¼3½ tgka vkod çnk; ds lacaèk esa fdlh çkIrdrkZ }kjk nkok—r buiqV dj çR;;
mlh çnk; ds fy, çnk;drkZ }kjk ?kksf"kr dj ls vfèkd gS ;k çnk;drkZ }kjk viuh
fofèkekU; foojf.k;ksa esa tkod çnk; ?kksf"kr ugha fd;k x;k gS] ogka folaxfr nksuksa ,sls
O;fDr;ksa dks ,slh jhfr esa tks fofgr dh tk,] lalwfpr dh tk,xhA
¼4½ buiqV dj tek ds nkoksa dh vuqfyfi çkIrdrkZ dks ,slh jhfr esa tks fofgr dh
tk,] lalwfpr dh tk,xhA
¼5½ fdlh ,slh jkf’k] ftlds lacaèk esa mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu fdlh folaxfr dh
lalwpuk nh xbZ gS vkSj ftldks ml ekl dh fofèkekU; fooj.kh esa çnk;drkZ }kjk Bhd ugha
fd;k x;k gS ftlesa folaxfr lalwfpr dh xbZ gS] dks ml ekl] ftlesa folaxfr dh lalwpuk
nh xbZ gS] ds mRrjorÊ ekl dh fooj.kh esa çkfIrdrkZ ds vkmViqV dj esa ,slh jhfr esa tksM+k
tk,xk] tks fofgr dh tk,A
¼6½ buiqV dj çR;; ds :i esa nkok dh xbZ jkf’k] tks nkoksa ds vuqfyfidj.k ds
dkj.k vkfèkD; ikbZ tkrh gS] dks çkIRkdrkZ ds vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro esa ml ekl] ftlesa
vuqfyfidj.k lalwfpr dh tkrh gS] dh fooj.kh esa tksM+k tk,xkA
¼7½ çkIrdrkZ vius vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro ls mièkkjk ¼5½ ds vèkhu tksM+h xbZ jkf’k
dks ?kVkus dk ik= gksxk] ;fn çnk;drkZ èkkjk 39 dh mièkkjk ¼9½ esa fofufnZ"V le; lhek
ds Hkhrj viuh fofèkekU; fooj.kh esa chtd ;k ukes uksV ds C;kSjksa dks ?kksf"kr djrk gSA
¼8½ dksbZ çkfIrdrkZ] ftlds vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro esa mièkkjk ¼5½ ;k mièkkjk ¼6½
ds vèkhu dksbZ jkf’k tksM+h xbZ gS] çR;; ysus dh frfFk ls mDr mièkkjkvksa ds vèkhu rRLFkkuh
oèkZu fd, tkus rd bl çdkj tksM+h xbZ jkf’k ij èkkjk 50 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu
fofufnZ"V nj ij C;kt dk Hkqxrku djus dk nk;h gksxkA
¼9½ tgka mièkkjk ¼7½ ds vèkhu vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro esa fdlh dVkSrh dks Lohdkj
fd;k x;k gS rks mièkkjk ¼8½ ds vèkhu Hkqxrku fd, x, C;kt dk çfrnk; çkfIrdrkZ dks

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1397
mlds bySDVªksfudh udn [kkrs esa rRLFkkuh 'kh"kZ esa jde dk ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh
tk,] izR;; djds fd;k tk,xk (
ijarq fdlh Hkh n'kk esa çR;; fd, x, C;kt dh jkf’k çnk;drkZ }kjk Hkqxrku fd,
x, C;kt dh jkf’k ls vfèkd ugha gksxhA
¼10½ mièkkjk ¼7½ ds micaèkksa ds mYya?ku esa vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro ls ?kVkbZ xbZ jkf’k
dks çkfIrdrkZ ds vkmViqV dj nkf;Roks esa ml ekl dh mldh fooj.kh esa tksM+k tk,xk]
ftlesa ,slk mYya?ku gksrk gS vkSj çkIrdrkZ bl çdkj tksM+h xbZ jkf’k ij èkkjk 50 dh
mièkkjk ¼3½ esa fofufnZ"V nj ij C;kt dk Hkqxrku djus dk nk;h gksxkA
43- 43- 43- 43- 43- ¼1½ fdlh 
dk feyku] çfrykse esa fufnZ"V fd;k x;k gS½ }kjk fdlh djkofèk tkod çnk; ds laca/k esa çLrqr çR;sd tek
vkSj çfrnk;A
i= ds C;kSjs dk&
¼d½ rRLFkkuh 
x;k gS½ }kjk mlh djkofèk ;k vU; i'pkRorÊ djkofèk ds fy, mldh fofèkekU;
fooj.kh esa buiqV dj çR¸k; esa rRLFkkuh dVkSrh nkos ds fy,( vkSj
¼[k½ vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro esa deh ds fy, nkoksa ds vuqfyfidj.k ds fy,] ,slh jhfr
esa vkSj ,sls le; ds Hkhrj] tks fofgr fd;k tk,]
feyku fd;k tk,xkA
¼2½ çnk;drkZ }kjk vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro esa deh ds fy, ,slk nkok] ftldk çkfIrdrkZ
}kjk buiqV dj çR;; esa rRLFkkuh nkos esa deh ls feyku gks tkrk gS] dks vafre :i ls
Loh—r fd;k tk,xk rFkk ,slh Loh—fr çnk;drkZ dks jhfr] tks fofgr dh tk,] eas lalwfpr
dh tk,xhA
¼3½ tgka tkod çnk;ksa ds lacaèk esa vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro esa deh buiqV dj nkos
esa rRLFkkuh deh ls vfèkd gks tkrh gS ;k rRLFkkuh teki= dh çkIrdrkZ }kjk mldh
fofèkekU; foojf.k;ksa esa ?kks"k.kk ugha dh xbZ gS rks bl folaxfr dh lalwpuk nksuksa ,sls O;fDr;ksa
dks ,slh jhfr esa nh tk,xh] tks fofgr dh tk,A
¼4½ vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro esa deh ds fy, nkoksa ds vuqfyfidj.k dh lalwpuk
çnk;drkZ dks ,slh jhfr esa nh tk,xh] tks fofgr dh tk,A
¼5½ og jkf’k] ftlds lacaèk esa mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu dksbZ folaxfr lalwfpr dh xbZ
gS vkSj ftldks çkIrdrkZ }kjk ml ekl dh fooj.kh] ftlesa ,slh folaxfr lalwfpr dh xbZ
gS] dh fofèkekU; fooj.kh esa Bhd ugha fd;k x;k gS] dks çnk;drkZ ds vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro
esa ml ekl ds i'pkRorÊ ekl] ftlesa folaxfr lalwfpr dh xbZ gS] dh fooj.kh esa ml jhfr
esa tksM+ fn;k tk,xk] tks fofgr dh tk,A

1398 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼6½ vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro esa fdlh dVkSrh ds lacaèk esa ,slh jkf’k] tks nkoksa dh
vuqfyfidj.k ds ys[ks ikbZ tkrh gS] dks çnk;drkZ ds vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro esa ml ekl
dh fooj.kh esa tksM+ fn;k tk,xk] ftlesa ,slk vuqfyfidj.k lalwfpr fd;k tkrk gSA
¼7½ çnk;drkZ vius vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro ls mièkkjk ¼5½ ds vèkhu tksM+h xbZ jkf’k
dks ?kVkus dk ik= gksxk ;fn çkIrdrkZ tek i= ds C;kSjksa dks viuh fofèkekU; fooj.kh esa
èkkjk 39 dh mièkkjk ¼9½ ds vèkhu fofufnZ"V le; ds Hkhrj ?kksf"kr dj nsrk gSA
¼8½ dksbZ çnk;drkZ] ftlds vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro esa mièkkjk ¼5½ ;k mièkkjk ¼6½
ds vèkhu dksbZ jde tksM+h xbZ gS] bl çdkj tksM+h xbZ jkf’k ds lacaèk esa vkmViqV dj
nkf;Roks esa dVkSrh ds ,sls nkos dh frfFk ls mDr mièkkjkvksa ds vèkhu rRLFkkuh tksM+s tkus
rd èkkjk 50 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fofufnZ"V nj ij C;kt dk Hkqxrku djus dk nk;h
gksxkA
¼9½ tgka mièkkjk ¼7½ ds vèkhu vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro esa fdlh dVkSrh dks Lohdkj
fd;k tkrk gS ogka mièkkjk ¼8½ ds vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX; C;kt dk çfrnk; çnk;drkZ dks
mlds bySDVªksfudh udn [kkrs esa rRLFkkuh 'kh"kZ esa ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] jkf’k
dk çR;; djds fd;k tk,xk %
ijarq fdlh Hkh n'kk esa çR;; fd, tkus okys C;kt dh jkf’k çkIrdrkZ }kjk Hkqxrku
fd, x, C;kt dh jkf’k ls vfèkd ugha gksxhA
¼10½ mièkkjk ¼7½ ds micaèkksa ds mYya?ku esa vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro ls ?kVkbZ xbZ jkf’k
dks çnk;drkZ ds vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro esa ml ekl dh mldh fooj.kh esa tksM+ fn;k tk,xk
ftlesa ,slk mYya?ku gksrk gS vkSj ,slk çnk;drkZ bl çdkj tksM+h xbZ jkf’k ij èkkjk
50 dh mièkkjk ¼3½ esa fofufnZ"V nj ij C;kt dk Hkqxrku djus dk nk;h gksxkA
okf"kZd fooj.khA 44- 44- 44- 44- 44- ¼1½ buiqV lsok forjd] èkkjk 51 ;k èkkjk 52 ds vèkhu dj Hkqxrku djus okys
O;fDr] uSfefRrd djkèks; O;fDr vkSj vfuoklh djkèks; O;fDr ls fHkUu çR;sd 
O;fDr] çR;sd foÙkh; o"kZ ds fy, bysDVªksfudh :i ls ,sls ç:i vkSj ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr
dh tk,] ,sls foÙkh; o"kZ ds var esa 31 fnlacj dks ;k mlls iwoZ ,d okf"kZd fooj.kh çLrqr
djsxkA
¼2½ çR;sd 
mlds ys[kksa dh laijh{kk djokus dh vis{kk gS] okf"kZd ys[kksa dh laijhf{kr çfr vkSj foÙkh;
o"kZ ds fy, çLrqr okf"kZd fooj.kh esa ?kksf"kr çnk;ksa ds ewY; dks laijhf{kr okf"kZd foÙkh;
fooj.k ds lkFk feykrs gq, vkSj ,slh vU; fof'kf"V;ka] tks fofgr dh tk,] ds lkFk ,d
lekèkku fooj.k ds lkFk bySDVªksfudh :i esa mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu okf"kZd fooj.kh çLrqr
djsxkA
vafre fooj.khA 45- 45- 45- 45- 45- çR;sd 
djuk visf{kr gS vkSj ftlds 

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1399
jí djus ds vkns'k dh frfFk] tks Hkh i'pkRorÊ gks] ls rhu ekl ds Hkhrj ,sls ç:i vkSj
,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr fd;k tk,] ,d vafre fooj.kh çLrqr djsxk A
46- 46- 46- 46- 46- tgka dksbZ 
djus esa vlQy jgrk gS rc ogka mlls iUnzg fnu ds Hkhrj fooj.kh çLrqr djus dh vis{kk dks lwpukA
djrs gq, ,sls ç:i vkSj ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] ,d uksfVl tkjh fd;k tk,xkA
47- 47- 47- 47- 47- ¼1½ dksbZ 
vkod çnk;ksa ds C;kSjs ;k èkkjk 39 ;k èkkjk 45 ds vèkhu okafNr foojf.k;ka ns; frfFk rd mnxzg.kA
çLrqr djus esa vlQy jgrk gS rks og ikap gtkj :i, dh vfèkdre jkf’k ds vèkhu jgrs
gq,] çR;ssd ,sls fnu ds fy, ftlds nkSjku ,slh vlQyrk tkjh jgrh gS] lkS #i, foyac
Qhl dk Hkqxrku djsxkA
¼2½ dksbZ 
çLrqr djus esa vlQy jgrk gS rks jkT; esa mlds dkjckj ds ,d pkSFkkbZ çfr'kr ij
laxf.kr jkf’k ds vfèkdre ds vèkhu jgrs gq, çR;ssd fnu ds fy, ftlds nkSjku ,slh
vlQyrk tkjh jgrh gS] lkS #i, dh foyac Qhl dk Hkqxrku djus dk nk;h gksxk A
48- 48- 48- 48- 48- ¼1½ eky vkSj lsok dj O;olkf;;ksa ds vuqeksnu dh jhfr] mudh ik=rk 'krZsa] drZO; eky vkSj lsok dj
vkSj ckè;rk,a] gVkus dh jhfr rFkk muds dk;Z djus ds fy, vU; lqlaxr 'krZsa] os gksaxh] O;olk;hA
tks fofgr dh tk,aA
¼2½ dksbZ 
37 ds vèkhu tkod çnk;ksa ds C;kSjs èkkjk 38 ds vèkhu vkod çnk;ksa ds C;kSajs vkSj èkkjk 39
;k èkkjk 44 ;k èkkjk 45 ds vèkhu fooj.kh dks ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] çLrqr djus
ds fy, çkfèk—r dj ldsxkA
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼2½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] eky vkSj lsok dj O;olk;h
}kjk çLrqr fdlh fooj.kh ;k nk;j fd, x, vU; C;kSjksa ds lgh gksus dk mÙkjnkf;Ro ml

1400 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; v/;k; X
dj dk Hkqxrku dj dk Hkqxrku dj dk Hkqxrku dj dk Hkqxrku dj dk Hkqxrku
dj] C;kt] 'kkfLr 49- 49- 49- 49- 49- ¼1½ fdlh O;fDr }kjk baVjusV cSafdax ;k ØsfMV ;k MsfcV dkMZ ;k jk"Vªh; bysDVªksfudh
vkSj vU; jkf’k;ksa fufèk varj.k ;k okLrfod le; lexz fuiVku ;k fdlh ,sls vU; <ax }kjk dj] C;kt]
dk HkqxrkuA
'kkfLr] Qhl ;k fdlh vU; jkf’k ds fy, fd;k x;k çR;sd tek dk ,slh 'krksZa rFkk ,sls
fucaèkuksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tks fofgr dh tk,a] ,sls O;fDr ds bysDVªksfudh udn [kkrk
esa çR;; fd;k tk,xkA
¼2½ fdlh 
mlds bysDVªksfudh çR;; [kkrs] esa èkkjk 41 ds vuqlkj çR;; fd;k tk,xkA
¼3½ bysDVªksfudh udn [kkrs esa miyCèk jkf’k dk mi;ksx bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds
v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX; dj] C;kt] 'kkfLr] Qhl ;k fdlh
vU; jkf’k dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, ,slh jhfr esa vkSj ,slh 'krksZa ds vèkhu jgrs gq, rFkk
,sls le; ds Hkhrj] tks fofgr fd;k tk,] fd;k tk ldsxkA
¼4½ bysDVªksfudh çR;; [kkrk esa miyCèk jkf’k dk mi;ksx bl vfèkfu;e ;k ,dhd`r
eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 13½] ds vèkhu vkmViqV
dj nkf;Ro dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, ,slh jhfr esa vkSj ,slh 'krksZa ds vèkhu jgrs gq, rFkk
,sls le; ds Hkhrj] tks fofgr fd;k tk,] fd;k tk ldsxkA
¼5½ fdlh 
¼d½ ,dh—r dj dk mi;ksx igys ,dh—r dj dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, fd;k
tk,xk vkSj 'ks"k jkf’k] ;fn dksbZ gks] dk mi;ksx] dsaæh; dj vkSj jkT; dj ;k
la?k jkT; {ks= dj dk ml Øe esa Hkqxrku djus ds fy, fd;k tk,xk(
¼[k½ dsaæh; dj dk mi;ksx igys dsaæh; dj dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, fd;k tk,xk
vkSj 'ks"k jkf’k] ;fn dksbZ gks] dk mi;ksx] ,dh—r dj dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy,
fd;k tk,xk(
¼x½ jkT; dj dk mi;ksx igys] jkT; dj dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, fd;k tk,xk
vkSj 'ks"k jkf’k] ;fn dksbZ gks] dk mi;ksx] ,dh—r dj dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy,
fd;k tk,xk(
¼?k½ dsaæh; dj dk mi;ksx jkT; dj dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, ugha fd;k tk,xk(
vkSj
¼M-½ jkT; dj dk mi;ksx dsaæh; dj dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, ugha fd;k tk,xkA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1401
¼6½ bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu Hkqxrku dj] C;kt]
'kkfLr] Qhl ;k Hkqxrku fdlh vU; jkf’k dk Hkqxrku djus ds i'pkr~ bysDVªksfud udn
[kkrk ;k bysDVªksfud çR;; [kkrk jde esa 'ks"k dk èkkjk 54 ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj çfrnk;
fd;k tk ldsxkA
¼7½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu djkèks; O;fDr ds lHkh nkf;Roksa dks bysDVªksfud ns;
jftLVj esa vfHkfyf[kr fd;k tk,xk vkSj mudk ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] vuqj{k.k
fd;k tk,xkA
¼8½ çR;sd djkèks; O;fDr bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu
vius dj vkSj vU; ns;ksa dk fuEufyf[kr Øe esa fuoZgu djsxk] vFkkZr~ %&&
¼d½ iwoZ dj dkykofèk;ksa ls lacafèkr foojf.k;ksa ds Lo%fuèkkZfjr dj vkSj vU; ns; (
¼[k½ pkyw dj dkykofèk;ksa ls lacafèkr foojf.k;ksa ds Lo%fuèkkZfjr dj vkSj vU; ns;(
¼x½ bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu Hkqxrku ;ksX; dksbZ vU;
jkf’k] blesa èkkjk 73 ;k èkkjk 74 ds vèkhu voèkkfjr ekax Hkh 'kkfey gSA
¼9½ çR;sd O;fDr] ftlus bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ij
dj Hkqxrku fd;k gS] tc rd fd mlds }kjk çfrdwy u lkfcr fd;k tk,] ds ckjs esa ;g
le>k tk,xk fd mlus ,sls dj dh iw.kZ jkf’k dks ,sls ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çkIrdrkZ
dks ikl dj fn;k gS A
O;k[;k %& O;k[;k %& O;k[;k %& bl èkkjk ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,]&& O;k[;k %& O;k[;k %&
¼d½ çkfèk—r cSad esa ljdkj ds [kkrs esa tek dh tkus dh frfFk dks bysDVªksfudh
udn [kkrk esa tek djus dh frfFk le>h tk,xh (
¼[k½ vfHkO;fDr]&&
¼ i ½ Þns; djß ls vfHkizk; gS] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX; dj vkSj blesa
C;kt] Qhl vkSj 'kkfLr lfEefyr ugha gS( vkSj
¼ ii ½ ÞvU; ns;ß ls vfHkizk; gS] bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds
vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX; C;kt] 'kkfLr] Qhl ;k dksbZ vU; jkf’kA
50- 50- 50- 50- 50- ¼1½ çR;sd O;fDr] tks bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds micaèkksa foyfEcr
ds vuqlkj esa dj dk Hkqxrku djus dk nk;h gS] fdarq ljdkj dks fofgr vofèk ds Hkhrj Hkqxrku;ksX; dj ij
C;ktA dj ;k mlds fdlh Hkkx dk Hkqxrku djus esa vlQy jgrk gS] ml vofèk ds fy, ftlds
nkSjku dj ;k mldk dksbZ Hkkx Hkqxrku fd, fcuk jgrk gS] Lo;a] vBkjg çfr'kr ls

1402 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
vuf/kd ,slh nj ij] tks ljdkj }kjk ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij vfèklwfpr dh tk,] ij
C;kt dk Hkqxrku djsxk A
¼2½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu C;kt dh lax.kuk ml fnu] ftldks ,slk dj Hkqxrku
fd, tkus ds fy, ns; Fkk] ds i'pkRk~orÊ fnu ls ;Fkkfofgr ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh
tk,] dh tk,xhA
¼3½ dksbZ djkèks; O;fDr] tks èkkjk 42 dh mièkkjk ¼10½ ds vèkhu buiqV dj çR;;
dk vuqfpr ;k vkfèkD; dk nkok djrk gS ;k èkkjk 43 dh mièkkjk ¼10½ ds vèkhu vkmViqV
dj nkf;Ro esa vuqfpr ;k vkfèkD; dVkSrh dk nkok djrk gS] rks og] ;FkkfLFkfr] ,sls
vuqfpr ;k vkfèkD; nkos ;k ,slh vuqfpr ;k vkfèkD; dVkSrh ij ljdkj }kjk ifj"kn~ dh
flQkfj'kksa ij ;Fkk vfèklwfpr pkSchl çfr'kr ls vufèkd nj ij C;kt dk Hkqxrku djsxkA
lzksr ij dj 51- 51- 51- 51- 51- ¼1½ bl vfèkfu;e esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds izfrdwy gksrs gq, Hkh ljdkj]&&
dVkSrhA
¼d½ dsaæh; ljdkj ;k jkT; ljdkj ds fdlh foHkkx ;k LFkkiuk dks ( ;k
¼[k½ LFkkuh; çkfèkdkjh dks ( ;k
¼x½ ljdkjh vfHkdj.kksa dks ( ;k
¼?k½ ,sls O;fDr;ksa ;k O;fDr;ksa ds ,sls çoxZ dks] tks ljdkj }kjk ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa
ij vfèklwfpr fd;k tk,a]
¼ftls bl èkkjk esa blds i'pkr~ ÞdVkSrhdrkZß ds :i esa fufnZ"V fd;k x;k gS½]
çnk;drkZ ¼ftls bl èkkjk esa blds i'pkr~ Þftlls dVkSrh dh xbZ gSß dgk x;k gS½ dks
djkèks; oLrqvksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds fy;s fd, x, Hkqxrku ;k fd, x, çR;;
ls ogka] tgka ,slk çnk; dk dqy ewY; fdlh lafonk ds vèkhu nks yk[k ipkl gtkj #i,
ls vfèkd gS] ds ,d çfr'kr dh nj ls dj dVkSrh djus dk vkns'k ns ldsxh %
ijarq dksbZ dVkSrh rc ugha dh tk,xh ;fn çnk; dh vofLFkfr vkSj LFkku] fdlh ,sls
jkT; ;k la?k jkT; {ks= esa gS tks] çkIrdrkZ ds 
{ks= ls fHkUu gSA
O;k[;k & O;k[;k & O;k[;k & mijksDr fofufnZ"V dj dks dVkSrh ds ç;kstu ds fy, iznk; ds ewY; O;k[;k & O;k[;k &
dks chtd esa minf'kZr dsUæh; dj] jkT; dj] la?k jkT;{ks= dj] ,dhd``r
dj vkSj midj dks fooftZr djrs gq, jkf’k ds :i esa fy;k tk,xkA
¼2½ bl èkkjk ds vèkhu dj ds :i esa dVkSrh dh xbZ jkf’k dk dVkSrhdrkZ }kjk ml
ekl ds var ds ckn nl fnu ds Hkhrj] ftlesa ,slh dVkSrh dh xbZ gS] ,slh jhfr esa] tks
fofgr dh tk,] ljdkj dks Hkqxrku fd;k tk,xkA
¼3½ dVkSrh djus okyk] ftlls dVkSrh dh tk jgh gS] dks lafonk ewY;] dVkSrh dh
nj] dVkSrh dh xbZ jkf’k] ljdkj dks Hkqxrku;ksX; jkf’k vkSj ,slh vU; fof'kf"V;ksa dks ,slh
jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] of.kZr djrs gq, ,d çek.ki= çLrqr djsxkA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1403
¼4½ ;fn dksbZ dVkSrhdrkZ] ftlls dVkSrh dh tk jgh gS] dks lzksr ij dj dh dVkSrh
djus ds i'pkr~ ljdkj dks bl çdkj dVkSrh dh xbZ jde dk çR;; djus ds ikap fnu
ds Hkhrj çek.ki= çLrqr djus esa vlQy jgrk gS rks dVkSrhdrkZ foyac Qhl ds ekè;e
ls ,slh ikap fnu dh dkykofèk dh lekfIr ds i'pkr~ çR;sd fnu ds fy, tc rd ,slh
vlQyrk dks Bhd ugha dj fy;k tkrk gS] ikap gtkj #i, dh vfèkdre jkf’k ds vèkhu
jgrs gq,] lkS #i, dh jkf'k dk lank; djsxkA
¼5½ ftlls dVkSrh dh tk jgh gS og vius bysDVªkfud udn [kkrs esa dVkSrh fd,
x, vkSj èkkjk 39 dh mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu dVkSrhdrkZ dh fooj.kh esa minf'kZr dj ds çR;;
dk nkok ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] çLrqr djsxkA
¼6½ ;fn dksbZ dVkSrhdrkZ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu dj ds :i esa dVkSrh dh xbZ jkf’k
dk ljdkj dks Hkqxrku djus esa vlQy jgrk gS rks og dVkSrh fd, x, dj dh jkf’k ds
vfrfjDr èkkjk 50 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj esa C;kt dk Hkqxrku djsxkA
¼7½ bl èkkjk ds vèkhu O;frØe dh jkf’k dk voèkkj.k èkkjk 73 ;k èkkjk 74 esa
fofufnZ"V jhfr esa fd;k tk,xkA
¼8½ vkfèkD; ;k =qfViw.kZ dVkSrh ds en~ns mn~Hkwr dVkSrh ds dVkSrhdrkZ ;k ftlls
dVkSrh dh tk jgh gS] dks çfrnk; èkkjk 54 ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj fd;k tk,xk%
ijarq dVkSrhdrkZ dks dksbZ çfrnk; iznku ugha fd;k tk,xk ;fn dVkSrh dh xbZ jkf’k
dks] ftlls dVkSrh dh tk jgh gS] ds bysDVªksfudh udn [kkrs esa çR;; dj fn;k x;k gSA
52- 52- 52- 52- 52- ¼1½ bl vfèkfu;e esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds izfrdwy gksrs gq, Hkh çR;sd bysDVªksfudh lzksr ij dj dk
okf.kT; çpkyd ¼ftls bl èkkjk esa blds i'pkr~ Þçpkydß ds :i esa fufnZ"V fd;k x;k laxzg.kA
gS½] vfHkdrkZ u gksrs gq, Hkh] vU; iznk;dÙkkZvksa }kjk fd, x, ,sls djk/ks; çnk;ksa ftuds
laca/k esa izfrQy dk laxzg.k izpkyd }kjk fd;k x;k gS ds 'kq) ewY; dk ,d izfr'kr ls
vuf/kd ,slh nj] tks ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij ljdkj vf/klwfpr djs] ls laxf.kr jkf'k
dk laxzg.k djsxkA
O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& bl mi/kkjk ds iz;kstuksa ds fy, vfHkO;fDr djk/ks; iznk;ksa dk 'kq) ewY;
ls vfHkizk; gS] fdlh ekg esa izpkyd ds ek/;e ls lHkh 
O;fDr;ksa }kjk /kkjk 9 dh mi/kkjk ¼5½ ds v/khu vf/klwfpr lsokvksa ls
fHkUu] ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds djk/ks; iznk;ksa ds ladfyr ewY; esa
ls ?kVk, x, mDr ekg esa iznk;drkZvksa dks okfil fd, x, djk/ks;
iznk;ksa dk ldy ewY; gksxkA
¼2½ mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fofufnZ"V jkf’k dk laxzg djus dh 'kfDr çpkyd dks fdlh vU;
<ax ls olwyh dks çfrdwy :i ls çHkkfor ugha djsxhA
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu laxzfgr jkf’k dk Hkqxrku çpkyd }kjk ljdkj dks ml
ekl] ftlesa ,slk laxzg fd;k x;k Fkk] ds var ds ckn 10 fnu ds Hkhrj ,slh jhfr esa] tks
fofgr dh tk,] fd;k tk,xkA

1404 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼4½ çR;sd çpkyd] tks mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fofufnZ"V jkf’k dk laxzg djrk gS] mlds
ekè;e ls fd, tkus okys ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds tkod çnk;ksa] ftlessa mlds ekè;e
ls okil dh xbZ ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk; 'kkfey gSa rFkk ekl ds nkSjku mièkkjk
¼1½ ds vèkhu lax`fgr jkf’k ds C;kSjksa dks varfoZ"V djrs gq, ,sls ç:i vkSj ,slh jhfr esa]
tks fofgr dh tk,] esa ,sls ekl ds var ds ckn nl fnu ds Hkhrj bysDVªksfudh :i esa ,d
fooj.k çLrqr djsxkA
¼5½ çR;sd çpkyd] tks mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fofufnZ"V jkf’k dks laxzfgr djrk gS] mlds
ekè;e ls fd, tkus okys ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds tkod çnk;ksa] ftlesa mlds ekè;e
ls okil fd, x, ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk; 'kkfey gSa rFkk foÙkh; o"kZ ds nkSjku
mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu lax`fgr jkf’k ds C;kSjksa dks varfoZ"V djrs gq, ,sls ç:i vkSj ,slh jhfr
esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] ,sls foÙk o"kZ ds var ds vkxkeh 31 fnlacj ls iwoZ bysDVªksfudh :i
esa ,d okf"kZd fooj.k çLrqr djsxkA
¼6½ ;fn dksbZ çpkyd mièkkjk ¼4½ ds vèkhu fooj.kh çLrqr djus ds i'pkr~ mlesa
dksbZ yksi ;k xyr fof'kf"V;ka ikrk gS] tks fd laoh{kk] laijh{kk] fujh{k.k ;k dj çkfèkdkfj;ksa
ds çorZu dk;Zdykiksa ls fHkUu gS rks og ,sls ml ekl] ftlds nkSjku ,slk yksi ;k xyr
fof'kf"V;ka è;ku esa vkbZ gSa] ds fy, çLrqr fd, tkus okys fooj.k esa yksi ;k xyr fof'kf"V;ksa
dks èkkjk 50 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ esa ;FkkfofufnZ"V C;kt ds Hkqxrku ds vèkhu jgrs gq, Bhd djsxk%
ijarq ,sls yksi ;k xyr fof'kf"V;ksa dkss ,sls 'kq) djus dh vuqefr foÙkh; o"kZ dh
lekfIr ds i'pkr~ flracj ekl dk fooj.k çLrqr djus ds fy, ns; frfFk ;k lqlaxr okf"kZd
fooj.k çLrqr djus dh okLrfod frfFk] tks Hkh iwoZrj gks] ds i'pkr~ ugha nh tk,xh A
¼7½ çnk;drkZ] ftlus çpkyd ds ekè;e ls ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk;
fd;k gSS] lax`fgr jkf’k vkSj mièkkjk ¼4½ ds vèkhu çLrqr çpkyd dh fooj.kh esa minf'kZr
jkf’k dk ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] vius bysDVªkfud udn [kkrs esa çR;; dk nkok
djsxkA
¼8½ mièkkjk ¼4½ ds vèkhu çR;sd çpkyd }kjk çLrqr çnk; ds C;kSjksa dk bl
vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu 
rRLFkkuh C;kSjksa ds lkFk ,slh jhfr esa vkSj ,sls le; ds Hkhrj] tks fofgr fd;k tk,] feyku
fd;k tk,xkA
¼9½ tgka mièkkjk ¼4½ ds vèkhu çR;sd çpkyd }kjk çLrqr tkod çnk; iwfrZ ds
C;kSjs èkkjk 37 ds vèkhu çnk;drkZvksa çLrqr rRLFkkuh C;kSjksa ds lkFk feyku ugha djrs gS
rks bl folaxfr dh lalwpuk nksuksa O;fDr;ksa dks ,slh jhfr esa vkSj ,sls le; ds Hkhrj] tks
fofgr fd;k tk,] nh tk,xhA
¼10½ og jkf’k] ftlds lacaèk esa mièkkjk ¼9½ ds vèkhu fdlh folaxfr dh lalwpuk nh
xbZ gS vkSj ftldks çnk;drkZvksa }kjk fofèkekU; fooj.kh esa ;k çpkyd }kjk ml ekl ds
fooj.k esa] ftlesa folaxfr dh lalwpuk nh xbZ Fkh] Bhd ugha fd;k tkrk gS rks mls mDr
çnk;drkZ ds ml ekl ds i'pkRk~orÊ ekl dh fooj.kh esa ftlesa folaxfr dh lwpuk nh

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1405
xbZ Fkh ds vkmViqV dj nkf;Ror esa ,slh jhfr ls] tks fofgr dh tk,] tksM+k tk,xk tgka
çpkyd }kjk çLrqr cfgxkZeh çnk;ksa iwfrZ;ksa dk ewY; çnk;drkZ }kjk çLrfqr cfgxkZeh
çnk;ksa ds ewY; ls vfèkd gS A
¼11½ lacafèkr çnk;drkZ] ftlds vkmViqV dj nkf;Ro esa mièkkjk ¼10½ ds vèkhu dksbZ
jkf’k tksM+h xbZ gS] og ,slk çnk; ds lacaèk esa /kkjk 50 dh mi/kkjk ¼1½ ds v/khu fofufnZ"V
nj ls tksMh xbZ jkf’k ij ml frfFk ls tc ,slk dj ns; Fkk] ls Hkqxrku dh frfFk rd
laxf.kr C;kt lfgr dj dk Hkqxrku djsxk A
¼12½ dksbZ çkfèkdkjh tks mik;qDr dh inoh ls uhps dk u gks] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu
fdUgha dk;Zokfg;ksa ls iwoZ ;k muds Øe ds nkSjku çpkyd dks fuEufyf[kr ls lacafèkr ,sls
C;kSjs çLrqr djus ds fy, uksfVl dh rkehy dj ldsxk&
¼d½ fdlh dkykofèk ds nkSjku ,sls çpkyd ds ekè;e ls izHkkfor fd, x, ekyksa
;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk;( ;k
¼[k½ ,sls çpkyd }kjk izcaf/kr çnk; dj jgs çnk;drkZvksa }kjk xksnkeksa ;k HkkaMkxkjksa]
pkgs fdlh Hkh uke ls os Kkr gksa] esa j[kss ekyksa dk LVkWd] tks çpkyd }kjk
çcaf/kr gkss vkSj ,sls çnk;drkZvksaa us ftls dkjckj ds vfrfjDr LFkku ds #i
esa ?kksf"kr fd;k gS]
tks uksfVl }kjk fofufnZ"V fd;k tk,A
¼13½ çR;sd çpkyd] ftl ij mièkkjk ¼12½ ds vèkhu uksfVl dh rkehy dh xbZ gS]
,sls uksfVl dh rkehy dh frfFk ls iUæg dk;Z fnol ds Hkhrj visf{kr tkudkjh çLrqr
djsxkA
¼14½ dksbZ O;fDr] tks mièkkjk ¼12½ ds vèkhu rkehy fd, x, uksfVl }kjk visf{kr
tkudkjh çLrqr djus esa vlQy jgrk gS] èkkjk 122 ds vèkhu dh tk ldus okyh fdlh
dkjZokbZ ij çfrdwy çHkko Mkys fcuk] 'kkfLr dk nk;h gksxk] tks iPphl gtkj #i, rd
gks ldsxhA
O;k[;k & O;k[;k & O;k[;k & bl èkkjk ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, Þlacafèkr çnk;drkZß vfHkO;fDr dk vFkZ O;k[;k & O;k[;k &
çpkyd ds ekè;e ls ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk; djus okyk
çnk;drkZ gksxkA
53- 53- 53- 53- 53- èkkjk 49 dh mièkkjk ¼5½ ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj ,dh—r eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] buiqV dj çR;;
2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 13½ ds vèkhu dj cdk;k ds Hkqxrku ds fy, bl vfèkfu;e dk vaarj.kA
ds vèkhu fy, x, buiqV dj çR;; ds mi;ksx] tks èkkjk 39 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu çLrqr
fofèkekU; fooj.kh esa minf'kZr gS] fd;s tkus ij jkT; dj ds :i esa lax`ghr jkf’k ls bl
çdkj mi;ksx fd, x, çR;; ds cjkcj jkf’k dks ?kVk fn;k tk,xk vkSj jkT; ljdkj jkT;
dj ys[ks ls bl çdkj ?kVkbZ xbZ jkf’k ds lerqY; jkf’k dks ,dh—r dj ys[ks esa ,slh
jhfr esa vkSj ,sls le; ds Hkhrj] tks fofgr fd;k tk,] varfjr djsxhA

1406 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; XI
çfrnk; çfrnk; çfrnk; çfrnk; çfrnk;
dj çfrnk;A 54- 54- 54- 54- 54- ¼1½ dksbZ O;fDr] tks fdlh dj vkSj ,sls dj ij Hkqxrku fd, x, C;kt] ;fn dksbZ
gks] ;k mlds }kjk Hkqxrku fd, x, dj ;k fdlh jkf’k ds çfrnk; dk nkok djrk gS og
lqlaxr frfFk ls nks o"kZ dh lekfIr ls iwoZ ,sls ç:i vkSj ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,]
vkosnu dj ldsxk%
ijarq dksbZ 
bysDVªksfudh udn [kkrs esa fdlh 'ks"k ds çfrnk; dk nkok djrk gS og èkkjk 39 ds vèkhu
çLrqr fooj.kh esa ,sls çfrnk; dk ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] nkok dj ldsxk A
¼2½ la;qDr jk"Vª la?k dk dksbZ fo'ks"kh—r vfHkdj.k ;k dksbZ vU; cgqi{kh; foÙkh;
laLFkku vkSj laxBu] tks la;qDr jk"Vª ¼fo'ks"kkfèkdkj vkSj mUeqfDr;ka½ vfèkfu;e] 1947 ¼1947
dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 46½] ds vèkhu vfèklwfpr gS] fons'kh jkT;ksa ds dUlqysV ;k nwrkokl
;k dksbZ vU; O;fDr ;k O;fDr;ksa dk oxZ tks èkkjk 55 ds vèkhu vfèklwfpr gS] tks mlds
}kjk ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds vkod çnk;ksa ij Hkqxrku dj ds çfrnk; dk gdnkj
gS] ,sls çfrnk; ds fy, ,sls ç:i vkSj jhfr esa] tks fofgr fd;k tk,] esa ml frekgh] ftlesa
,slk çnk; çkIr fd;k x;k Fkk] ds vafre fnu ls Ng ekl dh lekfIr ls iwoZ vkosnu dj
ldsxkA
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼10½ ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq, dksbZ 
vofèk ds var esa fdlh buiqV dj çR;; dk] ftldk mi;ksx ugha fd;k x;k gS] çfrnk;
dk nkok dj ldsxk %
ijUrq fuEufyf[kr ls fHkUu ekeyksa esa mi;ksx u fd, x, buiqV dj çR¸k; ds
çfrnk; dk dksbZ nkok ugha Lohdkj fd;k tk,xk —
¼ i ½ dj dk Hkqxrku fd, fcuk fd, x, 'kwU; nj çnk;(
¼ ii ½ tgka buiqV ij dj izR;; ds lafpr gksus dk dkj.k buiqV dj nj dh rqyuk
esa vkmViqV iznk;ksa ij dj dh nj mPprj gksrs gq, ¼'kwU; dj nj ;k iw.kZr%
dj eqDr iznk;ksa ls fHkUu½] flok; ,sls ekyksa ,oa lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds iznk; tks
ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'k ij ljdkj }kjk vf/klwfpr fd, tk,a %
ijarq buiqV dj çR;;] ftldk mi;ksx ugha fd;k x;k gS] ds çfrnk; dks mu
ekeyksa esa Lohdkj ugha fd;k tk,xk tgka Hkkjr ls fu;kZr fd, x, eky fu;kZr 'kqYd dh
'krZ ds v/;èkhu gS %
ijarq ;g vkSj fd buiqV dj çR;; ds fdlh çfrnk; dks Lohdkj ugha fd;k
tk,xk] ;fn ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk;drkZ ,slh çnk;ksa ij Hkqxrku fd, x,
,dhd``r dj ds çfrnk; dk nkok djrk gSA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1407
¼4½ vkosnu ds lkFk fuEufyf[kr layXu gksaxs&
¼d½ ;g lkfcr djus ds fy, fd vkosnd dks çfrnk; ns; gS ,sls nLrkosth lk{;(
vkSj
¼[k½ ,sls nLrksosth ;k vU; lk{; ¼èkkjk 33 esa fufnZ"V nLrkostksa lfgr½ tSlk fd
vkosnd ;g lkfcr djus ds fy, çLrqr djs fd dj dh jkf’k vkSj C;kt] ;fn
dksbZ gS] dk Hkqxrku fd;k x;k gS ;k ,sls fdlh dj ;k fdlh vU; jkf’k dk
Hkqxrku fd;k x;k gS ftlds lacaèk esa ,sls çfrnk; dk nkok fd;k x;k gS] ml
jkf’k dks mlls laxzghr fd;k x;k Fkk ;k mlds }kjk Hkqxrku fd;k x;k Fkk
rFkk ,sls dj vkSj C;kt dk Hkkj fdlh vU; O;fDr dks ikl ugha fd;k x;k
gS %
ijarq tgka çfrnk; ds :i esa nkok dh xbZ jkf’k nks yk[k #i, ls de gS] rks vkosnd
ds fy, dksbZ nLrkost vkSj vU; lk{; çLrqr djuk vko';d ugha gksxk fdarq og mlds
ikl miyCèk nLrkost ;k vU; lk{;ksaa ds vkèkkj ij ;g çekf.kr djrs gq, ,d ?kks"k.kk
Qkby dj ldsxk fd ,sls dj vkSj C;kt dk Hkkj fdlh vU; O;fDr dks ikl ugha fd;k
x;k gSA
¼5½ ;fn fdlh ,sls vkosnu dh çkfIr ij leqfpr vfèkdkjh dk ;g lekèkku gks
tkrk gS fd nkok fd, x, çfrnk; dh laiw.kZ jkf’k ;k mlds fdlh Hkkx dk çfrnk; fd;k
tk ldrk gS rks og rnuqlkj vkns'k djsxk vkSj bl çdkj voèkkfjr jkf’k dks èkkjk 57 esa
fufnZf"V fufèk esa tek djsxkA
¼6½ mièkkjk ¼5½ esa varfoZ"V fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh leqfpr vfèkdkjh bl fufeÙk
ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij ljdkj }kjk vfèklwfpr fd, tkus okys 
,sls çoxZ ls fHkUu 
çfrnk; ds nkos ds fdlh ekeys esa vufUre vkèkkj ij bl izdkj nkok dh xbZ jkf’k] ftlesa
Loh—r buiqV dj çR;; dh jkf’k dks NksM+dj] ds uCcs çfr'kr dk çfrnk; ,slh jhfr esa
vkSj ,slh 'krksZa] ifjlhekvksa vkSj lqj{kkik;ksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tSlk fd fofgr fd;k tk,]
dj ldsxk rFkk rRi'pkr~ mièkkjk ¼5½ ds vèkhu vkosnd }kjk çLrqr nLrkostksa ds lE;d~
lR;kiu ds i'pkr~ çfrnk; ds fuiVku ds fy, vafre vkns'k djsxkA
¼7½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh mièkkjk ¼5½ ds vèkhu lHkh ifjçs{;ksa esa laiw.kZ vkosnu dh
çkfIr dh frfFk ls lkB fnu ds Hkhrj vkns'k tkjh djsxkA
¼8½ mièkkjk ¼5½ esa varfoZ"V fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh çfrns; jkf’k dks fufèk esa
tek fd, tkus ds LFkku ij vkosnd dks Hkqxrku fd;k tk,xk ;fn ,slh jkf’k fuEukfyf[kr
ls lacafèkr gS&
¼d½ 'kwU;&nj okys ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ;k buiqV ;k buiqV lsokvksa ftudk
mi;ksx ,slh 'kwU;&nj okys çnk;ksa ds fy, fd;k x;k gS] ij Hkqxrku fd, x,
dj dk çfrnk;(

1408 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼[k½ mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu buiqV dj çR;;] ftldk mi;ksx ugha fd;k x;k gS]
dk çfrnk;(
¼x½ ,sls çnk; ij Hkqxrku fd, x, dj dk çfrnk;] ftldks ;k rks iw.kZr% ;k va'kr%
miyCèk ugha djk;k x;k gS vkSj ftlds fy, chtd tkjh ugha fd;k x;k gS
;k tgka dksbZ çfrnk; okmpj tkjh fd;k x;k gS (
¼?k½ èkkjk 77 ds vuqlj.k esa dj dk çfrnk; (
¼³½ dj vkSj C;kt] ;fn dksbZ gks] ;k vkosnd }kjk Hkqxrku dh xbZ dksbZ jkf’k] ;fn
mlus ,sls dj vkSj C;kt dk Hkkj fdlh vU; O;fDr dks ikl ugha fd;k gks(
;k
¼p½ vkosndksa ds ,sls vU; oxZ] tSlk fd ljdkj ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij vfèklwpuk
}kjk fofufnZ"V djs] }kjk ogu fd;k tkus okyk dj ;k C;ktA
¼9½ vihy vfèkdj.k ;k fdlh U;k;ky; ds fu.kZ;] fMØh] vkns'k ;k bl vfèkfu;e
;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ;k rRle; ço`Ùk fdlh vU; fofèk esa rRçfrdwy fdlh
ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh flok; mièkkjk ¼8½ ds micaèkksa ds vuqlj.k ds] dksbZ çfrnk; ugha fd;k
tk,xkA
¼10½ tgka fdlh ,sls 
gS] ftlus dksbZ fooj.kh çLrqir djus esa pwd dh gS ;k ftlls dksbZ dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr
dk Hkqxrku fd, tkus dh vis{kk gS] ftl ij fdlh U;k;ky;] vfèkdj.k ;k vihy çkfèkdj.k
us fofufnZ"V frfFk rd dksbZ jksd ugha yxkbZ gS] leqfpr vfèkdkjh&
¼d½ ns; çfrnk; ds Hkqxrku dks jksd ldsxk tc rd mDr O;fDr }kjk
fooj.kh çLrqr djus ;k ;FkkfLFkfr] dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku ugha
fd;k tkrk(
¼[k½ ns; çfrnk; esa ls fdlh dj] C;kt] 'kkfLr] Qhl ;k fdlh vU; jkf’k
dk] ftldk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, djkèks; O;fDr nk;h gS fdarq tks bl
vfèkfu;e ;k fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu Hkqxrku u dh gqbZ jgrh gS] dVkSrh
dj ldsxkA
O;k[;k & O;k[;k & O;k[;k & bl mièkkjk ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, ÞfofufnZ"V frfFkß vfHkO;fDr dk vFkZ O;k[;k & O;k[;k &
bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu vihy nk;j djus dh vafre frfFk gksxkA
¼11½ tgka dksbZ vkns'k ftlls çfrnk; mn~Hkwr gqvk gS fdlh vihy ;k vxzÙkj dk;Zokfg;ksa
dh fo"k;&oLrq gS ;k tgka bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu vU; dk;Zokfg;ka yafcr gSa vkSj vk;qDr
dk ;g er gS fd ,slk çfrnk; vuqnÙk djus ls mDr vihy ;k vU; dk;Zokgh esa vidj.k
;k fd, x, diV ds dkj.k jktLo ds çfrdwy :i ls çHkkfor gksus dh laHkkouk gS rks
og djkèks; O;fDr dks lquokbZ dk volj çnku djus ds i'pkr~ çfrnk; dks ml le;
rd] tSlk og voèkkfjr djs] jksd ldsxkA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1409
¼12½ tgka mièkkjk ¼11½ ds vèkhu fdlh çfrnk; dks jksdk x;k gS rks èkkjk 56 esa
varfoZ"V fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh djkèks; O;fDr ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij ;Fkk vfèklwfpr
Ng çfr'kr ls vufèkd ,slh nj ij C;kt dk gdnkj gksxk ;fn vihy ;k vkSj dk;Zokfg;ksa
ds ifj.kkeLo:i og çfrnk; dk gdnkj gks tkrk gSA
¼13½ bl èkkjk esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds çfrdwy gksrs gq, Hkh uSfefÙkd djkèks; O;fDr
;k èkkjk 27 dh mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu vfuoklh djkèks; O;fDr }kjk tek dh xbZ vfxze dj
dh jkf’k dk rc rd çfrnk; ugha fd;k tk,xk tc rd fd ,sls O;fDr us ml leLr
dkykofèk ds fy,] ftlds fy, mls 
jgus dh vofèk ds fy, èkkjk 39 ds vèkhu visf{kr lHkh foojf.k;ka izLrqr u dj nh gkasA
¼14½ bl èkkjk esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds izfrdwy gksrs gq, Hkh mièkkjk ¼5½ ;k
mièkkjk ¼6½ ds vèkhu fdlh çfrnk; dk vkosnd dks Hkqxrku ugha fd;k tk,xk ;fn jkf’k
,d gtkj :i, ls de gSA
O;k[;k & O;k[;k & O;k[;k & bl èkkjk ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,]&& O;k[;k & O;k[;k &
¼1½ Þçfrnk;ß esa ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk 'kwU;&nj çnk; ;k ,sls 'kwU; nj
çnk;ksa dks djus ds fy, mi;ksx fd, x, buiqVksa ;k buiqV lsokvksa ds fy, dj dk çfrnk;
;k fu;kZr ds :i esa le>s x, ekyksa dh çnk; ij dj çfrnk; ;k mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu
;Fkkmicafèkr mi;ksx u fd;k x;k buiqV dj çR;; dk çfrnk; lfEefyr gSA
¼2½ Þlqlaxr frfFkß ls fuEufyf[kr vfHkizk; gS&
¼d½ Hkkjr ls ckgj fu;kZr fd, x, ekyksa dh n'kk esa] ;FkkfLFkfr] tgka Lo;a ,sls ekyksa
ds fy, ;k ,sls ekyksa esa mi;ksx fd, x, buiqV ;k buiqV lsokvksa ds lacaèk esa Hkqxrku fd,
x, dj dk çfrnk; miyCèk gS]&&
¼ i ½ ;fn ekyksa dk fu;kZr leqæ ;k ok;q ekxZ }kjk fd;k tkrk gS rks og frfFk
ftldks iksr ;k og ok;q;ku] ftlesa ,sls ekyksa dh ynkbZ dh tkrh gS]
Hkkjr NksM+rk gS( ;k
¼ ii ½ ;fn ekyksa dk fu;kZr Hkwfe ekxZ ls fd;k tkrk gS rks og frfFk ftldks
,sls eky lhek ls xqtjrs gSa ( ;k
¼ iii ½ ;fn ekyksa dk fu;kZr Mkd }kjk fd;k tkrk gS rks lacafèkr Mkd?kj }kjk
Hkkjr ls ckgj LFkku ij ekyksa ds ikjs"k.k dh frfFk(
¼[k½ ekyksa ds çnk; dks fu;kZr le>s tkus dh n'kk esa tgka Hkqxrku fd, x, dj
dk çfrnk; ekyksa ds lacaèk esa miyCèk gS] og frfFk ftldks ,sls le>s x, fu;kZrksa ds lacaèk
esa fooj.kh çLrqr dh xbZ gS (
¼x½ Hkkjr ls ckgj lsokvksa ds fu;kZr dh n'kk esa tgka Hkqxrku fd, x, dj dk
çfrnk;] ;FkkfLFkfr] lsokvksa ds fy, Lo;a ;k ,slh lsokvksa esa mi;ksx fd, x, buiqV ;k
buiqV lsokvksa ds lacaèk esa miyCèk gS rks fuEufyf[kr dh frfFk&

1410 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼ i ½ laifjorZuh; fons'kh eqæk esa Hkqxrku dh jlhn] tgka lsokvksa ds çnk; dks
,sls Hkqxrku dh çkfIr ls iwoZ iwjk dj fy;k x;k gS ( ;k
¼ ii ½ chtd tkjh djuk] tgka lsokvksa ds fy, Hkqxrku chtd tkjh djus dh
frfFk ls iwoZ vfxze esa çkIr dj fy;k x;k Fkk (
¼?k½ ml ekeys esa tgka dj fdlh vihy çkfèkdkjh] vihy vfèkdj.k ;k fdlh
U;k;ky; ds U;k;fu.kZ;] fMØh] vkns'k ;k funs'k ds ifj.kkeLo:i çfrns; gks tkrk gS rks
,sls fu.kZ;] fMØh] vkns'k ;k funs'k dh lalwpuk dh frfFk(
¼³½ mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu mi;ksx u fd, x, buiqV dj çR;; ds ekeys esa ml
foÙk o"kZ dk var] ftlesa ,sls çfrnk; dk nkok mnHkwr gksrk gS (
¼p½ ml ekeys esa] tgka dj dk vuafre :i ls bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu
cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu Hkqxrku fd;k tkrk gS rks mldss vafre fuèkkZj.k ds i'pkr~ dj
ds lek;kstu dh frfFk (
¼N½ çnk;drkZ ls fHkUu fdlh O;fä ds ekeys esa ,sls O;fDr }kjk ekyksa ;k lsokvksa
;k nksuksa dh çkfIr dh frfFk( vkSj
¼t½ fdlh vU; ekeys esa dj ds Hkqxrku dh frfFkA
dfri; ekeyksa esa 55- 55- 55- 55- 55- ljdkj ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] vfèklwpuk }kjk la;qä jk"Vª la?k ;k dksbZ fo'ks"khd``r
çfrnk;A vfHkdj.k ;k dksbZ vU;] cgqi{kh; foÙkhr laLFkku vkSj laxBu] tks la;qDr jk"Vª ¼fo'ks"kkfèkdkj
vkSj mUeqfDr;ka½ vfèkfu;e] 1947 ¼1947 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 46½ ds vèkhu vfèklwfpr gS]
fons'kh jkT;ksa ds dUlqysV ;k nwrkokl ;k dksbZ vU; O;fDr ;k O;fDr;ksa dk oxZ] tks bl
fufeÙk fofufnZ"V fd, tk,a] fofufnZ"V djsxh tks fd ,sls fucaèkuksa vkSj 'krksZa] tks fofgr dh
tk,] ds vèkhu jgrs gq, muds }kjk çkIr ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk vfèklwfpr çnk;
ij Hkqxrku fd, x, dj ds çfrnk; dk nkok djus dk gdnkj gksaxsA
foyafcr çfrnk; ij 56- 56- 56- 56- 56- ;fn fdlh vkosnd dks èkkjk 54 dh mièkkjk ¼5½ ds vèkhu fdlh dj ds çfrnk; dk
C;ktA vkns'k fd;k x;k gS vkSj mDr èkkjk dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu vkosnu dh çkfIr dh frfFk
ds lkB fnu ds Hkhrj mldk çfrnk; ugha fd;k tkrk gS rks ljdkj }kjk ifj"kn~ dh
flQkfj'kksa ij tkjh vfèklwpuk esa ;FkkfofufnZ"V Ng çfr'kr ls vufèkd ,slh nj ij mDr
èkkjk ds vèkhu vkosnu dh çkfIr dh frfFk ls lkB fnu dh lekfIr ds rqjUr i'pkr~ dh
frfFk ls ,sls dj dk çfrnk; djus dh frfFk rd C;kt Hkqxrku;ksX; gksxkA
ijarq tgka çfrnk; ds fy, dksbZ nkok fdlh U;k;fu.kkZ;d çkfèkdkjh ;k vihy çkfèkdkjh
;k vihy vfèkdj.k ;k U;k;ky; }kjk nk;j fdlh vkns'k] tks vafre vkns'k gS] ls mn~Hkwr
gksrk gS vkSj mldk ,sls vkns'k ds ifj.kkeLo:i nk;j vkosnu dh çkfIr dh frfFk ls lkB
fnu ds Hkhrj çfrnk; ugha fd;k tkrk gS rks ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij vfèklwfpr dh tkus
okyh ukS çfr'kr ls vufèkd ,slh nj ij vkosnu dh çkfIr dh frfFk ls lkB fnu ds lekfIr
ds i'pkr~ dh frfFk ls ,slk çfrnk; djus dh frfFk rd C;kt Hkqxrku;ksX; gksxkA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1411
O;k[;k & O;k[;k & O;k[;k & bl èkkjk ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, tgka fdlh vihy çkfèkdkjh] vihy vfèkdj.k O;k[;k & O;k[;k &
;k fdlh U;k;ky; }kjk èkkjk 54 dh mièkkjk ¼5½ ds vèkhu leqfpr
vfèkdkjh ds fdlh vkns'k ds fo#) çfrnk; dk vkns'k fd;k tkrk gS
rks vihy çkfèkdkjh] vihy vfèkdj.k ;k U;k;ky; }kjk ikfjr vkns'k dks
mDr mièkkjk ¼5½ ds vèkhu ikfjr vkns'k ekuk tk,xkA
57- 57- 57- 57- 57- ljdkj miHkksäk dY;k.k fufèk ds uke ls iqdkjh tkus okyh ,d fufèk dk xBu djsxh miHkksäk dY;k.k
vkSj ml fufèk esa fuEufyf[kr dks tek fd;k tk,xk& fufèkA
¼d½ èkkjk 54 dh mièkkjk ¼5½ esa fufnZ"V jkf’k(
¼[k½ fufèk esa tek dh xbZ jkf’k ds fofuèkku ls dksbZ vk;( vkSj
¼x½ mlds }kjk çkIr ,slh vU; èku jkf'k;kaA
58- 58- 58- 58- 58- ¼1½ fufèk esa tek dh xbZ lHkh jkf'k;ksa dk ljdkj }kjk mi;ksx miHkksDrkvksa ds fufèk dk mi;ksxA
dY;k.k ds fy, ,slh jhfr esa fd;k tk,xk] tks fofgr dh tk,A
¼2½ ljdkj ;k mlds }kjk fofufnZ"V çkfèkdkjh fufèk ds lacaèk esa mfpr vkSj i`Fkd~
ys[ks rFkk vU; lqlaxr vfHkys[k j[ksxk rFkk ys[kksa dk ,d okf"kZd fooj.k Hkkjr ds fu;a=d
rFkk egkys[kkijh{kd ds ijke'kZ ls ,sls ç:i esa rS;kj djsxk] tks fofgr fd;k tk,A

1412 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; XII
fuèkkZj.k fuèkkZj.k fuèkkZj.k fuèkkZj.k fuèkkZj.k
Lor% fuèkkZj.kA 59- 59- 59- 59- 59- çR;sd 
djsxk vkSj èkkjk 39 ds vèkhu ;FkkfofufnZ"V çR;sd djkofèk ds fy, fooj.kh çLrqr djsxkA
vuafre fuèkkZj.kA 60- 60- 60- 60- 60- ¼1½ mièkkjk ¼2½ ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tgka djkèks; O;fDr ekyksa ;k lsokvksa
;k nksuksa ds ewY; dk voèkkj.k djus esa ;k mldks ykxw dj dh nj dk voèkkj.k djus esa
vleFkZ gS rks og mfpr vfèkdkjh dks fyf[kr esa vfUre vkèkkj ij dj ds Hkqxrku ds dkj.kksa
dks nsrs gq, vuqjksèk djsxk vkSj leqfpr vfèkdkjh ,slk vuqjksèk çkIr gksus dh frfFk ls uCcs
fnu ls vi'pkr~ vofèk ds Hkhrj vufUre vkèkkj ij ,slh nj ij ;k ,sls ewY; ij] tks mlds
}kjk fofufnZ"V fd;k tk,] dj ds Hkqxrku dks vuqKkr djsxkA
¼2½ vufUre vkèkkj ij dj ds Hkqxrku dks vuqKkr fd;k tk ldsxk ;fn djkèks;
O;fDr fofgr ç:i es ,d caèk&i= vkSj ,slk çfrHkw ;k ,slh çfrHkwfr] tks leqfpr vfèkdkjh
mfpr le>s] tks djkèks; O;fDr dks vafre :i ls fuèkkZfjr dj vkSj vfUre :i ls fuèkkZfjr
dj dh jkf’k ds chp ds varj dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, ckè; djrh gks] fu"ikfnr djrk
gSA
¼3½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu tkjh vkns'k dh lalwpuk dh frfFk ls
Ng ekl ls vufèkd vofèk ds Hkhrj dj fuèkkZj.k dks vafre :i nsus ds fy, ;Fkk visf{kr
,slh lwpuk dks fopkj esa ysus ds i'pkr~ vafre fuèkkZj.k vkns'k ikfjr djsxk &
ijarq bl mièkkjk esa fofufnZ"V dkykofèk dks i;kZIr dkj.k minf'kZr djus ij vkSj
dkj.kksa dks ys[kc) djrs gq, la;qDr vk;qDr ;k vij vk;qDr }kjk Ng ekl ls vufèkd
dh vkSj vofèk ds fy, rFkk vk;qDr }kjk pkj o"kZ ls vufèkd ,slh vkSj vofèk ds fy,
foLrkfjr fd;k tk ldsxkA
¼4½ 
vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX; dj] fdarq ftldk Hkqxrku èkkjk 39 dh mièkkjk ¼7½ ;k blds v/khu cuk,
x, fu;eksa esa fofufnZ"V fu;r frfFk rd ugha fd;k x;k gS] ij èkkjk 50 dh mièkkjk ¼1½
ds vèkhu fufnZ"V nj ij ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dh mDr çnk; ds lacaèk esa dj dk
Hkqxrku djus dh fu;r frfFk ds i'pkr~ okLrfod Hkqxrku dh frfFk rd C;kt dk Hkqxrku
djus dk nk;h gksxk pkgs ,slh jkf’k dk Hkqxrku vafre fuèkkZj.k ds fy, vkns'k tkjh djus
ls iwoZ ;k i'pkr~ fd;k x;k gksA
¼5½ tgka 
ifj.kkeLo:i çfrnk; dk gdnkj gks tkrk gS rks èkkjk 54 dh mièkkjk ¼8½ ds micaèkksa ds
vèkhu jgrs gq, ,sls çfrnk; ij èkkjk 56 esa ;Fkk micafèkr C;kt dk Hkqxrku fd;k tk,xkA
foojf.k;ksa dh 61- 61- 61- 61- 61- ¼1½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh 
laoh{kkA ds lgh gksus dk lR;kiu djus ds fy, laoh{kk djsxk vkSj è;ku esa vkbZ folaxfr;ksa] ;fn

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1413
dksbZ gksa] dh ,slh jhfr] tks fofgr dh tk,] esa lwpuk nsxk rFkk ml ij mldk Li"Vhdj.k
çkIr djsxkA
¼2½ Li"Vhdj.k ds Lohdk;Z ik, tkus dh n'kk esa 
lwfpr fd;k tk,xk vkSj bl lacaèk esa dksbZ vkSj dkjZokbZ ugha dh tk,xhA
¼3½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh }kjk lwfpr fd, tkus ds rhl fnu dh dkykofèk ds Hkhrj
;k ,slh vkSj dkykofèk] tks mlds }kjk eatwj dh tk,] esa lekèkkuçn Li"Vhdj.k çLrqr
u fd, tkus dh n'kk esa ;k tgka 
ml ekl dh fooj.kh esa] ftlesa folaxfr Lohsdkj dh xbZ Fkh] lqèkkjdkjh mik; djus esa
vlQy jgrk gS rks leqfpr vfèkdkjh dkjZokbZ vkjaHk dj ldsxk] ftlds varxZr èkkjk 65
;k èkkjk 66 ;k èkkjk 67 ds vèkhu dkjZokbZ;ka gSa ;k èkkjk 73 ;k èkkjk 74 ds vèkhu dj vkSj
vU; cdk;k dk voèkkj.k djus ds fy, vxzlj gksxkA
62- 62- 62- 62- 62- ¼1½ èkkjk 73 ;k èkkjk 74 esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds çfrdwy gksrs gq, Hkh tgka dksbZ foojf.k;ksa dks nk;j
O;fDr èkkjk 46 ds vèkhu uksfVl dh rkehy ds i'pkr~ Hkh èkkjk 39 ;k èkkjk 45 ds vèkhu ugha djus okys dk
fuèkkZj.kA
fooj.kh çLrqr djus esa vlQy jgrk gS rks leqfpr vfèkdkjh lqlaxr lkexzh tks miyCèk
;k og lkexzh] ftldks mlus ,df=r fd;k gS] dks fopkj esa ysus ds i'pkr~ vkSj viuh
lokZsÙke foosd ls mDr O;fDr dk dj fuèkkZj.k djsxk rFkk foÙk o"kZ] ftlls Hkqxrku u fd,
x, dj lacafèkr gS] dh okf"kZd fooj.kh dks çLrqr djus ds fy, èkkjk 44 ds vèkhu fofufnZ"V
frfFk ls ikap o"kZ dh vofèk ds Hkhrj fuèkkZj.k dk vkns'k tkjh djsxk A
¼2½ tgka 
rhl fnu ds Hkhrj fofèkekU; fooj.kh çLrqr dj nsrk gS rks mDr fuèkkZj.k vkns'k dk çfrlagj.k
fd;k x;k le>k tk,xk fdarq èkkjk 47 ds vèkhu foyac Qhl ds Hkqxrku ;k èkkjk 50 dh
mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu C;kt dk Hkqxrku djus dk nkf;Ro tkjh jgsxk A
63- 63- 63- 63- 63- èkkjk 73 ;k èkkjk 74 esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds izfrdwy gksrs gq, Hkh tgka dksbZ djkèks; v
O;fDr 
fuèkkZj.kA gS ;k ftldk 
tks dj dk Hkqxrku djus dk nk;h Fkk rks leqfpr vfèkdkjh lqlaxr dj vof/k ds fy, viuh
lokZsÙke tkudkjh ls mDr O;fDr ds fu/kkZj.k ds fy, vxzlj gksxk rFkk foÙk o"kZ] ftlls
Hkqxrku u fd, x, dj lacafèkr gSa] dh okf"kZd fooj.kh dks çLrqr djus ds fy, èkkjk 44
ds vèkhu fofufnZ"V frfFk ls ikap o"kZ dh vofèk ds Hkhrj fuèkkZj.k dk vkns'k tkjh djsxk%
ijarq O;fDr dks lquokbZ dk volj çnku fd, fcuk ,slk dksbZ fuèkkZj.k vkns'k ugha
fd;k tk,xkA
64- 64- 64- 64- 64- ¼1½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh mldh tkudkjh esa fdlh O;fDr ds dj nkf;Ro dks minf'kZr dfri; fo'ks"k
djus okys lk{; ds vkus ij vij vk;qDr~ ;k la;qDr vk;qDr dh iwoZ vuqKk ls jktLo ds ekeyksa esa laf{kIr
fuèkkZj.kA
fgr dk laj{k.k djus ds fy, ,sls O;fDr ds dj nkf;Ro dk fuèkkZj.k ds fy, vxzlj gksrs
gq, fuèkkZj.k vkns'k tkjh djsxk ;fn mlds ikl ;g fo’okl djus dk i;kZIr vkèkkj gks fd
,slk djus esa dksbZ foyac djus ls jktLo ds fgr ij çfrdwy çHkko iM+ ldrk gS %

1414 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
ijarq tgka djkèks; O;fDr] ftlls nkf;Ro lacafèkr gS] dk vfHkfu'p;u ugha fd;k tk
ldus vkSj ,slk nkf;Ro ekyksa dh çnk; ls lEcafèkr gksus dh n'kk esa ,sls ekyksa ds çHkkjh
O;fDr dks fuèkkZj.k dk nk;h djkèks; O;fDr le>k tk,xk vkSj og bl èkkjk ds vèkhu dj
dk vkSj ns; vU; jkf’k dk Hkqxrku djus dk nk;h gksxkA
¼2½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu ikfjr vkns'k dh çkfIr dh frfFk ls rhl fnu ds Hkhrj
djkèks; O;fDr }kjk fd, x, vkosnu ij ;k Lo;a vij vk;qDr ;k la;qä vk;qDr ;g fopkj
djrk gS fd ,slk vkns'k =qfViw.kZ gS rks og ,sls vkns'k dks okil ys ysxk vkSj èkkjk 73 vkSj
èkkjk 74 esa vfèkdfFkr çfØ;k dk vuqlj.k djsxkA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1415
vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; XIII
ys[kkijh{kk ys[kkijh{kk ys[kkijh{kk ys[kkijh{kk ys[kkijh{kk
65- 65- 65- 65- 65- ¼1½ vk;qDr ;k mlds }kjk çkfèk—r dksbZ vU; vfèkdkjh lkèkkj.k ;k fo'ks"k vkns'k dj çkfèkdkfj;ksa
}kjk fdlh 
dh tk,] esa ys[kkijh{kk dj ldsxkA
¼2½ mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V vfèkdkjh 
vius dk;kZy; esa ys[kkijh{kk dk lapkyu dj ldsaxsA
¼3½ 
fnol iwoZ fofgr jhfr ls lwfpr fd;k tk;sxkA
¼4½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu ys[kkijh{kk dks] ys[kkijh{kk ds izkjaHk gksus dh frfFk ls rhu
ekl dh vofèk ds Hkhrj iwjk fd;k tk,xk %
ijarq tgka vk;qDr dk ;g lekèkku gks tkrk gS fd ,sls 
esa ys[kkijh{kk rhu ekl ds Hkhrj iwjh ugha dh tk ldrh gS rks og dkj.kksa dks ys[kc) djrs
gq, vf/kdre Ng ekl dh vkSj vof/k ds fy, dkykofèk dk foLrkj dj ldsxkA
O;k[;k & O;k[;k & O;k[;k & bl mièkkjk ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, Þys[kkijh{kk dk izkjaHkß O;k[;k & O;k[;k & vfHkO;fDr dk
vFkZ og frfFk] ftl frfFk dks dj çkfèkdkfj;ksa }kjk ekaxs x, vfHkys[k
vkSj nLrkost 
dkjckj ds LFkku ij] ys[kkijh{kk ds okLrfod vkjaHk dh frfFk] buesa ls
tks Hkh i'pkRorÊ gksaA
¼5½ ys[kkijh{kk ds çØe esa çkfèk—r vfèkdkjh 
dh vis{kk dj ldsxk]&&
¼ i ½ mldh vis{kkuqlkj ys[kk cfg;ka ;k vU; nLrkostksa ds lR;kiu ds fy,
vko';d lqfoèkk çnku djuk (
¼ ii ½ mls ,slh tkudkjh] tks og vis{kk djs] çLrqr djus dh rFkk ys[kkijh{kk
ds le; ij iw.kZ djus ds fy, lgk;rk çnku djus dhA
¼6½ ys[kkijh{kk ds iw.kZ gksus ij leqfpr vfèkdkjh rhl fnu ds Hkhrj ml 
O;fDr dks] ftlds vfHkys[kksa dh ys[kkijh{kk dh xbZ gS] fu"d"kksZa] mlds vfèkdkjksa vkSj ckè;rkvksa
rFkk ,sls fu"d"kksZa ds dkj.kksa ls lwfpr djsxkA
¼7½ tgka mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu lapkfyr ys[kkijh{kk dk ifj.kke dj dk Hkqxrku
u djus dk irk yxus ;k de dj Hkqxrku fd, tkus ;k =qfVo'k çfrnk; fd, tkus ;k
buiqV dj çR;; dks xyr rjhds ls ysus ;k mi;ksx djus ds :i esa gksrk gS rks leqfpr
vfèkdkjh èkkjk 73 ;k èkkjk 74 ds vèkhu dkjZokbZ vkjaHk djsxkA

1416 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
fo'ks"k ys[kkijh{kkA 66- 66- 66- 66- 66- ¼1½ ;fn laoh{kk] tkap] vUos"k.k ;k mlds le{k fdUgaha vU; dk;Zokfg;ksa ds çØe
esa lgk;d vk;qDr dh in~oh ls uhps ds vfèkdkjh dk ekeys dh ç—fr vkSj tfVyrk rFkk
jktLo ds fgr esa ;g er gS fd ewY; dh lgh :i ls ?kks"k.kk ugha dh xbZ gS ;k fy;k x;k
çR;; lkekU; lhekvksa ds Hkhrj ugha gS rks og vk;qDr ds iwoZ vuqeksnu ls ,sls 
O;fDr dks fyf[kr lalwpuk }kjk mlds vfHkys[kksa] ftlds varxZr ys[kk cfg;ka Hkh gSa] dh
fdlh pkVZMZ vdkmaVsaV ;k ykxr ys[kkdkj] tSlk fd vk;qDr }kjk ukefufnZ"V fd;k tk,]
ls tkap djokus vkSj ys[kkijh{kk djokus dk funs'k ns ldsxkA
¼2½ bl çdkj ukefufnZ"V pkVZMZ vdkmaVsaV ;k ykxr ys[kkdkj uCcs fnu dh dkykofèk
ds Hkhrj ,slh ys[kkijh{kk dks mlds }kjk lE;d~ :i ls gLrk{kfjr vkSj çekf.kr fjiksVZ
ftleas vU; fof'kf"V;ksa dk o.kZu djrs gq,] tSlk fofufnZ"V fd;k tk,] mDr lgk;d
vk;qDr dks çLrqr djsxk %
ijarq lgk;d vk;qDr mls 
ys[kkdkj }kjk fd, x, vkosnu ij ;k fdlh rkfRor vkSj i;kZIr dkj.k ls mDr dkykofèk
dk uCcs fnu dh vkSj dkykofèk ls foLrkj dj ldsxkA
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds micaèk bl ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh çHkkoh gksaxs fd 
ds ys[kksa dh ys[kkijh{kk bl vfèkfu;e ;k rRLe; ço`Ùk fdlh vU; fofèk ds micaèkksa ds
vèkhu dh xbZ gSA
¼4½ 
,df=r fdlh lkexzh] ftldk bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu
mlds fo#) fdUgha dk;Zokfg;ksa esa mi;ksx fd;k tkuk çLrkfor gS] ds lacaèk esa lquokbZ dk
volj çnku fd;k tk,xkA
¼5½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu vfHkys[kksa dh tkap vkSj ys[kkijh{kk ds [kpZ ftlesa pkVZMZ
vdkmaVsaV ;k ykxr ys[kkdkj dk ikfjJfed Hkh 'kkfey gS] dk vk;qDr }kjk fuèkkZj.k vkSj
Hkqxrku fd;k tk,xk rFkk ,slk fuèkkZj.k vafre gksxkA
¼6½ tgka mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu lapkfyr ys[kkijh{kk dk ifj.kke dj dk Hkqxrku
u djus dk irk yxus ;k de dj Hkqxrku fd;k x;k ;k =qfVo'k çfrnk; fd, tkus ;k
buiqV dj çR;; dks xyr rjhds ls ysus ;k mi;ksx djus ds :i esa gksrk gS rks leqfpr
vfèkdkjh èkkjk 73 ;k èkkjk 74 ds vèkhu dkjZokbZ vkjaHk djsxkA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1417
vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; XIV
fujh{k.k] ryk'kh] vfHkxzg.k vkSj fxj¶rkjh fujh{k.k] ryk'kh] vfHkxzg.k vkSj fxj¶rkjh fujh{k.k] ryk'kh] vfHkxzg.k vkSj fxj¶rkjh fujh{k.k] ryk'kh] vfHkxzg.k vkSj fxj¶rkjh fujh{k.k] ryk'kh] vfHkxzg.k vkSj fxj¶rkjh
67- 67- 67- 67- 67- ¼1½ tgka leqfpr vfèkdkjh tks la;qDr vk;qDr dh inoh ls uhps dk u gks] ds ikl fujh{k.k] ryk'kh
;g fo’okl djus dk dkj.k gS fd& vkSj vfHkxzg.k dh
'kfDrA
¼d½ tgka fdlh djkèks; O;fDr us ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk; vius ikl
j[ks x, ekyksa ds LVkWd ds lacaèk esa fdlh laO;ogkj dks fNik;k gS ;k bl
vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu mldh gdnkjh ls vfèkd buiqV dj çR;; dk nkok fd;k
gS ;k og dj vioapu ds fy, bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa
ds micaèkksa ds fdlh mYya?ku esa fyIr jgk gS( ;k
¼[k½ ekyksa ds ifjogu ds dkjckj esa yxk gqvk dksbZ O;fDr ;k fdlh HkkaMkxkj ;k
xksnke ;k fdlh vU; LFkku dk Lokeh ;k çpkyd ,sls ekyksa dks j[k jgk gS
ftu ij dj dk Hkqxrku ugha fd;k x;k gS ;k mlus vius ys[kkvksa ;k ekyksa
dks ,slh jhfr esa j[kk gS ftlls bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu ns; dj dk vioapu
gksus dh laHkkouk gS]
rks og fyf[kr esa jkT; dj ds fdlh vfèkdkjh dks fyf[kr esa djkèks; O;fDr ds dkjckj
;k ekyksa ds ifjogu ds dkjckj esa yxs gq, O;fDr;ksa ;k HkkaMkxkj ;k xksnke ;k fdlh vU;
LFkku ds Lokeh ;k izpkyd ds fdlh LFkku dk fujh{k.k djus ds fy, çkfèk—r dj ldsxkA
¼2½ tgka leqfpr vf/kdkjh la;qDr vk;qDr dh inoh ls uhps dk u gks ds ikl
;k rks mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fd, x, fujh{k.k ds vuqlj.k esa ;k vU;Fkk ;g fo’okl djus
dk dkj.k gS fd dksbZ eky tks tCr ds fy, nk;h gS ;k dksbZ nLrkost ;k cfg;ka ;k phtsa]
tks mlds er esa bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdUghas dk;Zokfg;ksa ds fy, mi;ksxh ;k lqlaxr
gksaxh] ftUgas fdlh LFkku ij fNikdj j[kk x;k gS rks og jkT; dj ds fdlh vU; vfèkdkjh
dks ryk'kh vkSj vfHkxzg.k djus ds fy, fyf[kr esa çkfèk—r dj ldsxk ;k ,sls ekyksa]
nLrkostksa ;k cfg;ksa ;k phtksa dh ryk'kh ys ldsxk vkSj vfHkxzg.k dj ldsxk %
ijarq tgka ,sls ekyksa dks vfHkxzg.k djuk O;ogk;Z ugha gS rks leqfpr vfèkdkjh
;k mlds }kjk çkfèk—r dksbZ vU; vfèkdkjh ekyksa ds Lokeh ;k vfHkj{kd ij ,d vkns'k
rkehy dj ldsxk fd og ,sls vfèkdkjh dh iwoZ vuqefr ds flok; ekyksa dks ugha gVk,xk]
vyx ugha djsxk ;k vU;Fkk muls laO;ogkj ugha djsxk %
ijarq bl çdkj vfHkxzg.k fd, x, nLrkost ;k cfg;ka ;k phtsa ,sls vfèkdkjh
}kjk dsoy rc rd çfrèkkfjr dh tk,axh tc rd og mudh ijh{kk ds fy, vkSj bl
vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdlh tkap ;k dk;Zokfg;ksa ds fy, vko';d gSaA
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼2½ esa fufnZ"V nLrkost ;k cfg;ka ;k phtsa ;k djkèks; O;fDr ;k fdlh
vU; O;fDr }kjk çLrqr vU; nLrkost cfg;ka ;k phtsa ftUgsa bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds
v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu uksfVl tkjh djus ds fy, vkèkkj ugha cuk;k x;k gS]

1418 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
dks ,sls O;fDr dks mDr uksfVl tkjh djus dh frfFk ls rhl fnu ls vufèkd vofèk ds Hkhrj
okil dj fn;k tk,xkA
¼4½ mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu çkfèk—r vfèkdkjh dks fdlh ifjlj ds njokts dks lhy
djus dh ;k rksM+us dh ;k fdlh vyekjh] bysDVªksfudh ;qfDr] ckDl] lanwd] ftlesa O;fDr
ds dksbZ eky] ys[ks] jftLVkj ;k nLrkostksa dks fNik, tkus dk lansg gS] tgka ,sls ifjlj]
vyekjh] bysDVªksfudh ;qfDr] ckDl] lanwd rd mlds igqap dks jksdk tkrk gS] ogka mUgsa
rksM+dj [kksy ldsxkA
¼5½ og O;fDr] ftldh vfHkj{kk ls mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu fdUgha nLrkostksa dks
vfHkxzg.k fd;k x;k gS] mudh çfr;ka cukus ;k muls çkfèk—r vfèkdkjh dh mifLFkr esa
,sls LFkku vkSj ,sls le; tks ,slk vfèkdkjh bl fufeÙk minf'kZr djs] m)j.k ysus dk
gdnkj gksxk] flok; tgka ,slh çfr;ka cukuk ;k ,slk m)j.k ysuk leqfpr vfèkdkjh ds
er esa tkap dks çfrdwy :i ls çHkkfor djsxkA
¼6½ mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu bl çdkj vfHkxzg.k fd;k x;k eky vufUre vkèkkj ij
caèki= fu"ikfnr djus ij vkSj Øe'k% ,slh jhfr vkSj ,sls ek=k dh çfrHkwfr çLrqr djus
ij] tks fofgr dh tk,] ykxw dj] C;kt vkSj Hkqxrku;ksX; 'kkfLr] tSlh Hkh fLFkfr gks] ds
Hkqxrku ij fueZqDr fd;k tk ldsxkA
¼7½ tgka mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu fdUgha ekyksa dk vfHkxzg.k fd;k x;k gS vkSj ekyksa
ds vfHkxzg.k ls Ng ekl dh vofèk ds Hkhrj muds lacaèk esa dksbZ uksfVl tkjh ugha fd;k
x;k gS rks ekyksa dks ml O;fDr dks ykSVk fn;k tk,xk ftlds dCts ls mudk vfHkxzg.k
fd;k x;k Fkk %
ijarq i;kZIr dkj.k minf'kZr djus ij Ng ekl dh vofèk dks leqfpr vfèkdkjh
}kjk vfèkdre Ng ekl dh vkSj vofèk ds fy, foLrkfjr fd;k tk ldsxkA
¼8½ ljdkj] 'kh?kz u"V gksus ;k [krjukd ;k] le; ds lkFk ekyksa ds ewY; esa
vo{k;.k gksus okyh ç—fr ds ekyksa ;k ekyksa ds fy, HkaMkj.k LFkku dh deh ;k fdUgha
vU; lqlaxr fopkj.kksa dks è;ku esa j[krs gq, vfèklwpuk }kjk ekyksa ;k ekyksa ds ,sls oxZ
dks] ftldk leqfpr vfèkdkjh }kjk ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu
vfHkxzg.k ds i'pkr~ ;FkklaHko 'kh?kz fuiVku fd;k tk,xk] fufnZ"V dj ldsxhA
¼9½ tgka dksbZ eky] tks mièkkjk ¼8½ ds vèkhu fofufnZ"V eky gS] ftudk leqfpr
vfèkdkjh ;k mlds }kjk çkfèk—r fdlh vU; vfèkdkjh }kjk mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu vfHkxzg.k
fd;k x;k gS] og ,sls ekyksa dh ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] ,d lwph rS;kj djsxkA
¼10½ ryk'kh vkSj vfHkxzg.k ds lacaèk esa naM çfØ;k lafgrk] 1973 ¼1974 dk dsUnzh;
vf/kfu;e 2½ ds micaèk] tgka rd gks lds bl èkkjk ds vèkhu ryk'kh vkSj vfHkxzg.k dks
bl mikarj.k ds vèkhu jgrs gq, ykxw gksaxs fd mDr lafgrk dh èkkjk 165 mièkkjk ¼5½ esa
ÞeftLVªsVß 'kCn] tgka&tgka ;g vkrk gS] ds LFkku ij Þvk;qDrß 'kCn çfrLFkkfir dj fn;k
x;k Fkk A

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1419
¼11½ tgka leqfpr vfèkdkjh ds ikl ;g fo’okl djus ds dkj.k gS fd O;fDr us
dj dk vioapu fd;k gS ;k og fdlh dj ds Hkqxrku ds vioapu dk ç;kl dj jgk gS]
og dkj.kksa dks ys[kkc) djrs gq, mlds le{k çLrqr ,sls O;fDr ds ys[kksa] jftLVjksa ;k
nLrkostksa dk vfHkxzg.k dj ldsxk vkSj mudh jlhn nsxk vkSj muij bl vfèkfu;e ;k
blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu vfHk;kstu ds fy, dk;Zokfg;ksa ds lacaèk esa tc rd
vko';d gks] mUgsa jksds j[ksxkA
¼12½ vk;qDr ;k mlds }kjk çkfèk—r dksbZ vfèkdkjh fdlh djkèks; O;fDr }kjk ekyksa
;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds lEcUèk esa dj chtd ;k çnk; dk fcy ds fuxZeu dh
tk¡p djus ds mís'; ls mlds dkjckj ifjlj lss eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk Ø; dj
ldsxk vkSj ,sls vfèkdkjh }kjk bl çdkj Ø; fd, x, ekyksa ds okil djus ij djk/ks;
O;fDr ;k dkjckj ifjlj dk dksbZ çHkkjh O;fDr bl çdkj Hkqxrku dh xbZ jkf’k dk iwoZ
esa tkjh dj chtd ;k fcy dks jí djus ds i'pkr~ çfrnk; djsxkA
68- 68- 68- 68- 68- ¼1½ ljdkj ,slh jkf’k ls vfèkd ewY; ds] tks mlds }kjk fofufnZ"V dh tk,] ekyksa lapyu esa ekyksa dk
ds ifjogu djus okys okgu ds çHkkjh O;fDr ls ,sls nLrkostksa vkSj ,slh ;qfä;ksa dh] tks fujh{k.kA
fofgr dh tk,] j[ks tkus dh vis{kk dj ldsxhA
¼2½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu ogu fd, tkus okys visf{kr nLrkostksa ds C;kSjksa dk ,slh
jhfr esa fofèkekU; fd;k tk,xk] tks fofgr dh tk,A
¼3½ tgka mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V fdlh ifjogu dks fdlh LFkku ij leqfpr vfèkdkjh
}kjk jksd fy;k tkrk gS rks og mDr okgu ds çHkkjh O;fDr ls mDr mièkkjk ds vèkhu
fofgr nLrkostksa vkSj ;qfDr;ksa dk lR;kiu djus ds fy, çLrqr djus dh vis{kk dj ldsxk
vkSj mDr O;fDr nLrkostksa vkSj ;qfDr;ksa ds çLrqr djus dk nk;h gksxk rFkk ekyksa ds
fujh{k.k djokus dh Hkh Lohd`fr nsxkA
69- 69- 69- 69- 69- ¼1½ tgka vk;qDr ds ikl ;g fo’okl djus ds dkj.k gksa fd fdlh O;fDr us èkkjk fxj¶rkj djus dh
132 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds [kaM ¼d½ ;k [kaM ¼[k½ ;k [kaM ¼x½ ;k [kaM ¼?k½ esa fofufnZ"V dksbZ 'kfDrA
vijkèk fd;k gS tks mDr èkkjk dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds [kaM ¼ i ½ ;k [kaM ¼ ii ½ ;k mièkkjk ¼2½ ds
vèkhu naMuh; gS rks og vkns'k }kjk jkT; dj ds fdlh vfèkdkjh dks ,sls O;fDr dks
fxj¶rkj djus ds fy, çkfèk—r djsxkA
¼2½ tgka fdlh O;fDr dks èkkjk 132 dh mièkkjk ¼5½ ds vèkhu fofufnZ"V fdlh
vijkèk ds fy, mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fxj¶rkj fd;k tkrk gS rks O;fDr dks fxj¶rkj djus
ds fy, çkfèk—r vfèkdkjh] O;fDr dks fxj¶rkjh ds vkèkkj ls voxr djok,xk vkSj mls
pkSchl ?kaVsa ds Hkhrj eftLVªsV ds le{k çLrqr djsxkA
¼3½ naM çfØ;k lafgrk] 1973 ¼1974 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 2½ ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu
jgrs gq,]&
¼d½ tgka fdlh O;fDr dks èkkjk 132 dh mièkkjk ¼4½ ds vèkhu fofufnZ"V fdlh
vijkèk ds fy, mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fxj¶rkj fd;k tkrk gS rks mldh

1420 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
tekur eatwj dh tk,xh ;k tekur ds O;frØe esa eftLVªsV dh vfHkj{kk
ds fy, vxzsf"kr fd;k tk,xk (
¼[k½ vlaKs; vkSj tekurh; vijkèk dh n'kk esa fdlh fxj¶rkj O;fDr dks
tekur ij ;k vU;Fkk fueqDr djus ds fy, fdlh mik;qDr ;k lgk;d
vk;qDr ds ikl ogha 'kfDr;ka gksaxh tks fdlh iqfyl LVs'ku ds çHkkjh
O;fDr ds ikl gksrh gSa vkSj og mUgh micaèkksa ds vèkhu jgsxk ftuds
vèkhu fdlh iqfyl LVs'ku dk çHkkjh O;fDr gksrk gSA
O;fDr;ksa dks lk{; 70- 70- 70- 70- 70- ¼1½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu leqfpr vfèkdkjh dks fdlh O;fDr dks leu djus dh]
nsus vkSj nLrkost ftldh mifLFkfr dks fdlh tkap esa og lk{; nsus ds fy, ;k fdlh nLrkost ;k fdlh
çLrqr djus ds fy, oLrq dks çLrqr djus ds fy, vko';d le>rk gS] mlh jhfr esa 'kfDr lfUufgr gksxh tSlk
leu djus dh fd flfoy çfØ;k lafgrk] 1908 ¼1908 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 5½] ds vèkhu fdlh flfoy
'kfDrA
U;k;ky; dks nh xbZ gSA
¼2½ mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V çR;sd ,slh tkap dks Hkkjrh; naM lafgrk] 1860
¼1860 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 45½] dh èkkjk 193 vkSj èkkjk 228 ds vUrxZr ÞU;kf;d dk;Zokfg;kaß
le>k tk,xkA
dkjckj ifjljksa rd 71- 71- 71- 71- 71- ¼1½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh }kjk bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu çkfèk—r dksbZ vfèkdkjh tks
igqapA la;qDr vk;qDr dh inoh ls uhps dk u gks] fdlh 
LFkku rd] ys[kkcfg;ka] nLrkostksa] daI;wVjksa] daI;wVj çksxzkeksa] daI;wVj lk¶Vos;j] pkgs fdlh
daI;wVj esa çfr"Bkfir gks ;k vU;Fkk] visf{kr vU; ,slh phtksa tks ,sls LFkku ij miyCèk
gksa] ys[kkijh{kk] laoh{kk] lR;kiu vkSj tkap ds fy,] tks jktLo ds fgrkFkZ vko';d gks] rd
igqap gksxhA
¼2½ mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V LFkku dk çR;sd çHkkjh O;fDr ekax fd, tkus ij mièkkjk
¼1½ ds vèkhu çkfèk—r vfèkdkjh dks ;k leqfpr vfèkdkjh }kjk rSukr ys[kkijh{kk ny ;k
èkkjk 66 ds vèkhu fufnZ"V ykxr ys[kkdkj ;k pkVZMZ vdkmaVsaV dks fuEufyf[kr —
¼ i ½ ,sls vfHkys[k] ftUgsa 
x;k gS vkSj leqfpr vfèkdkjh dks ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] ?kksf"kr
fd;k x;k gS (
¼ ii ½ rqyui= ;k mldk lerqY;(
¼ iii ½ okf"kZd foÙkh; ys[ks] lE;d~ :i ls ys[kkijhf{kr] tgka visf{kr gks (
¼ iv ½ daiuh vfèkfu;e] 2013 ¼2013 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 18½] dh èkkjk 148
ds vèkhu ykxr ys[kkijh{kk fjiksVZ] ;fn dksbZ gks (

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1421
¼ v ½ vk;&dj vfèkfu;e] 1961 ¼1961 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 43½] dh èkkjk
44d[k ds vèkhu vk;&dj ys[kkijh{kk fjiksVZ]
;fn dksbZ gks ( vkSj
¼ vi ½ dksbZ vU; lqlaxr vfHkys[k]
vfèkdkjh ;k ys[kkijh{kk ny ;k pkVZMZ vdkmaVsaV ;k ykxr ys[kkdkj }kjk laoh{kk djus
ds fy, ml fnu ls] tc ,slh ekax dh xbZ Fkh] iUæg dk;Z fnol ls vufèkd vofèk ds Hkhrj
;k ,slh vkSj vf/kd vofèk] tks mDr vfèkdkjh ;k ys[kkijh{kk ny ;k pkVZMZ ys[kkdkj ;k
ykxr ys[kkdkj }kjk eatwj dh tk,] miyCèk djk,xkA
72- 72- 72- 72- 72- ¼1½ iqfyl] jsy] lhek'kqYd vkSj Hkw&jktLo ds laxzg.k esa yxs gq, vfèkdkjh] ftuesa leqfpr vfèkdkfj;ksa
xzkeh.k vfèkdkjha] dsaæh; dj ds vfèkdkjh vkSj la?k jkT; {ks= dj ds vfèkdkjh 'kkfey gSa] dh lgk;rk ds fy,
bl vfèkfu;e ds dk;kZUo;u esa leqfpr vfèkdkfj;ksa dh lgk;rk djsaxsA vfèkdkjhA
¼2½ ljdkj] vfèklwpuk }kjk] vfèkdkfjvksa ds fdlh vU; oxZ dks l'kä djrs gq,
bl vfèkfu;e ds dk;kZUo;u ds fy, muls] vk;qDr }kjk ,slk dgs tkus ij] leqfpr
vfèkdkfj;ksaa dks lg;ksx çnku djus dh vis{kk dj ldsxhA

1422 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; XV
ekax vkSj olwyh ekax vkSj olwyh ekax vkSj olwyh ekax vkSj olwyh ekax vkSj olwyh
diV ;k rF;ksa dk 73- 73- 73- 73- 73- ¼1½ tgka leqfpr vfèkdkjh dks ;g çrhr gksrk gS fd diV ;k tkucw>dj dksbZ
tkucw>dj feF;k feF;k dFku ;k dj vioapu ds fy, dj rF;ksa dks fNik, tkus ls fHkUu fdlh dkj.k ls
dFku ;k fNikus ls fdlh dj dk Hkqxrku ugha fd;k x;k gS ;k de Hkqxrku fd;k x;k gS ;k =qfVo'k çfrnk;
fHkUu fdlh vU; fd;k x;k gS ;k buiqV dj çR;; dks xyrh ls fy;k x;k gS ;k mldk mi;ksx fd;k x;k
dkj.k ls Hkqxrku u
fd;s x;s dj ;k gS rks og dj] ftldk bl çdkj Hkqxrku ugha fd;k x;k gS ;k de Hkqxrku fd;k x;k gS
de Hkqxrku dj ;k ;k =qfVo'k çfrnk; fd;k x;k gS ;k buiqV dj çR;; dks xyrh ls fy;k ;k mldk mi;ksx
=qfVo'k çfrnk; fd;k x;k gS] ds fy, çHkk;Z O;fDr dks dkj.k crkvks uksfVl rkehy djsxk fd D;ksa u og
fd, x, dj ;k uksfVl esa fofufnZ"V jkf’k ds lkFk èkkjk 50 ds vèkhu ml ij Hkqxrku;ksX; C;kt vkSj bl
xyr rjhds ls fy, vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu mnxzg.kh; 'kkfLr dk
x, ;k mi;ksx fd,
x, buiqV dj Hkqxrku djsA
çR;; dk fuèkkZj.kA
¼2½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu uksfVl] mièkkjk ¼10½ ds v/khu vkns'k
tkjh djus ds fy, esa fofufnZ"V le;&lhek ls de ls de rhu ekl iwoZ tkjh djsxkA
¼3½ tgka mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fdlh dkykofèk ds fy, dksbZ uksfVl tkjh fd;k x;k
gS rks leqfpr vfèkdkjh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu vkus okyh dkykofèk;ksa ls fHkUu fdUgha dkykofèk;ksa
esa Hkqxrku u fd, x, dj ;k de Hkqxrku fd, x, ;k =qfVo'k çfrnk; fd, x, ;k xyr
rjhds ls fy, ;k miHkksx fd;s x, buiqV dj çR;; ds C;kSjksa dks varfoZ"V djrs gq, ,d
fooj.k dj ls çHkk;Z O;fDr ij rkehy dj ldsxkA
¼4½ ,sls O;fDr ij ,sls fooj.k dh rkehy dks bl 'krZ ds vèkhu jgrs gq, fd
mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu vkus okyh ,slh dj vofèk;ksa ds fy, ç;qDr vkèkkj ogh gSa] ftudk
iwoZ lwpuk esa o.kZu fd;k x;k gS] uksfVl dh rkehy le>k tk,xkA
¼5½ dj ls çHkk;Z O;fDr] ;FkkfLFkfr]mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu uksfVl dh rkehy ;k
mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu fooj.k dh rkehy ls iwoZ èkkjk 50 ds vèkhu ml ij Hkqxrku;ksX; C;kt
ds lkFk dj dh jkf’k dk vius Lo;a ds voèkkj.kk ij ;k mfpr vfèkdkjh ds voèkkj.kk ij
dj dk Hkqxrku dj ldsxk vkSj mfpr vfèkdkjh dks ,sls Hkqxrku dh fyf[kr lwpuk nsxkA
¼6½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh ,slh lwpuk dh çkfIr ij] bl çdkj Hkqxrku fd, x, dj
;k bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX; fdlh 'kkfLr
ds fy, ;FkkfLFkfr] mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu uksfVl ;k mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu fooj.k rkehy
ugha djsxkA
¼7½ tgka leqfpr vfèkdkjh dk ;g er gS fd mièkkjk ¼5½ ds vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX;
jkf’k okLrfod :i ls Hkqxrku;ksX; jkf’k ls de gS rks og ,slh jkf’k ds lacaèk esa] tks

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1423
okLrfod :i ls Hkqxrku;ksX; jkf’k ls de gksrh gS] ds fy, mièkkjk ¼1½ esa ;Fkk micafèkr
uksfVl tkjh djsxkA
¼8½ tgka mièkkjk ¼1½ ;k mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu dj ls çHkk;Z O;fDr èkkjk 50 ds vèkhu
Hkqxrku;ksx; C;kt ds lkFk mDr dj dk dkj.k crkvks uksfVl tkjh djus ds rhl fnu
ds Hkhrj Hkqxrku dj nsrk gS rks dksbZ 'kkfLr Hkqxrku;ksX; ugha gksxh vkSj mDr uksfVl ds
lacaèk esa lHkh dk;Zokfg;ksa dks iwjk dj fy;k x;k le>k tk,xkA
¼9½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh dj ls çHkk;Z O;fDr }kjk fd, x, vH;kosnu] ;fn dksbZ gks]
ij fopkj djus ds i'pkr~ dj] C;k~t vkSj dj ds nl çfr'kr ds lerqY; jkf’k ;k nl
gtkj :i,] tks Hkh mPprj gks] ds cjkcj 'kkfLr fu/kkZfjr djsxk tks ,sls O;fDr }kjk ns;
gks vkSj ,d vkns'k tkjh djsxkA
¼10½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh mièkkjk ¼9½ ds vèkhu vkns'k dks ml foÙk o"kZ] ftlds fy,
dj Hkqxrku ugha fd;k x;k Fkk ;k de Hkqxrku fd;k x;k Fkk ;k buiqV dj çR;; xyr
fy;k x;k Fkk ;k xyr mi;ksx fd;k x;k Fkk ;k =qfVo'k çfrnk; çkIr fd;k x;k Fkk] ds
fy, okf"kZd fooj.kh izLrqr djus dh frfFk ls rhu o"kZ ds Hkhrj vkns'k tkjh djsxkA
¼11½ mièkkjk ¼6½ ;k mièkkjk ¼8½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh mièkkjk ¼9½
ds vèkhu 'kkfLr ogka Hkqxrku;ksX; gksxh tgka LOkr% fuèkkZfjr dj ;k dj ds :i esa ,df=r
fdlh jkf’k dks ,sls Hkqxrku;ksX; dj dh fu;r frfFk ls rhl fnu dh dkykofèk ds Hkhrj
Hkqxrku ugha fd;k x;k gSA
74- 74- 74- 74- 74- ¼1½ tgka mfpr vfèkdkjh dks ;g çrhr gksrk gS fd diV ;k tkucw>dj dksbZ feF;k diV ;k rF;ksa dk
dFku ;k dj vioapu ds fy, rF;ksa dks fNik, tkus ds dkj.k ls fdlh dj dk Hkqxrku tkucw>dj feF;k
ugha fd;k x;k gS ;k de Hkqxrku fd;k x;k gS ;k =qfVo'k çfrnk; fd;k x;k gS ;k buiqV dFku ;k fNikus ds
dkj.k ls Hkqxrku u
dj çR;; dks xyrh ls fy;k x;k gS ;k mldk mi;ksx fd;k x;k gS rks og dj] ftldk fd, x, dj ;k
bl çdkj Hkqxrku ugha fd;k x;k gS ;k de Hkqxrku fd;k x;k gS ;k =qfVo'k çfrnk; fd;k de Hkqxrku fd,
x;k gS ;k buiqV dj çR;; dks xyrh ls fy;k ;k mldk mi;ksx fd;k x;k gS] ds fy, x, dj ;k =qfVo'k
çHkk;Z O;fDr dks dkj.k crkvks uksfVl rkehy djsxk fd D;ksa u og uksfVl esa fofufnZ"V çfrnk; fd, x,
jkf’k ds lkFk èkkjk 50 ds vèkhu ml ij Hkqxrku;ksX; C;kt vkSj uksfVl esa fufnZ"V dj dh dj ;k xyr rjhds
ls fy, x, ;k
jkf'k ds lerqY; jkf'k ds 'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku djsA mi;ksx fd, x,
buiqV dj çR;;
¼2½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu uksfVl] mièkkjk ¼10½ esa vkns'k tkjh dk fuèkkZj.kA
djus ds fy,] esa fofufnZ"V le;&lhek ls de ls de Ng ekl iwoZ tkjh djsxkA
¼3½ tgka mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fdlh dkykofèk ds fy, dksbZ uksfVl tkjh fd;k x;k
rks leqfpr vfèkdkjh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu vkus okyh dkykofèk;ksa ls fHkUu fdUgha dkykofèk;ksa
esa Hkqxrku u fd, x, dj ;k de Hkqxrku fd, x, ;k =qfVo'k çfrnk; fd, x, ;k xyr

1424 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
rjhds ls fy, ;k miHkksx fd;s x, buiqV dj çR;; ds C;kSjksa dks varfoZ"V djrs gq, ,d
fooj.k dj ls çHkk;Z O;fDr ij rkehy dj ldsxkA
¼4½ ,sls O;fDr ij mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu fooj.k dh rkehy dks bl 'krZ ds vèkhu
jgrs gq, fd mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu vkus okyh ,slh dj vofèk;ksa ds fy, ç;qDr vkèkkj] diV
;k dksbZ feF;k dFku ;k dj vioapu ds fy, tkucw>dj rF;ksa dks fNik, tkus ds flok;]
ogha gSa] ftudk iwoZ lwpuk esa o.kZu fd;k x;k gS] èkkjk 73 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu uksfVl
dh rkehy le>k tk,xkA
¼5½ dj ls çHkk;Z O;fDr mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu uksfVl dh rkehy ls iwoZ èkkjk 50
ds vèkhu mlds }kjk Hkqxrku;ksX; C;kt ds lkFk dj dh jkf’k dk vius Lo;a ds voèkkj.kk
ij ;k leqfpr vfèkdkjh ds voèkkj.kk ij dj rFkk ,sls dj ij iaæg çfr'kr ds nj ls
laxf.kr 'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku dj ldsxk vkSj mfpr vfèkdkjh dks ,sls Hkqxrku dh fyf[kr
lwpuk nsxkA
¼6½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh ,slh lwpuk dh çkfIr ij] bl çdkj Hkqxrku fd, x, dj
;k bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX; fdlh 'kkfLr ds
fy, mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu uksfVl dh rkehy ugha djsxkA
¼7½ tgka leqfpr vfèkdkjh dk ;g er gS fd mièkkjk ¼5½ ds vèkhu Hkqxrku dh xbZ
jkf’k okLrkfod :i ls Hkqxrku;ksX; jkf’k ls de gS rks og ,slh jkf’k ds lacaèk esa] tks
okLrfod :i ls Hkqxrku;ksX; jkf’k ls de gksrh gS] ds fy, mièkkjk ¼1½ esa ;Fkk micafèkr
uksfVl tkjh djsxkA
¼8½ tgka mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu dj ls çHkk;Z dksbZ O;fDr èkkjk 50 ds vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX;
C;kt ds lkFk mDr dj dk vkSj ,sls dj ds iPphl çfr'kr ds cjkcj 'kkfLr dk uksfVl
tkjh djus ds rhl fnu ds Hkhrj Hkqxrku dj nsrk gS rks mDr lwpuk ds lacaèk esa lHkh
dk;Zokfg;ksa dks iwjk dj fy;k x;k le>k tk,xkA
¼9½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh dj ls çHkk;Z O;fDr }kjk fd, x, vH;kosnu] ;fn dksbZ gks]
ij fopkj djus ds i'pkr~ ,sls O;fDr ls ns; dj dh jkf’k] C;kt vkSj 'kkfLr dk voèkkj.k
djsxk vkSj vkns'k tkjh djsxkA
¼10½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh mièkkjk ¼9½ ds vèkhu vkns'k dks ml foÙk o"kZ] ftlds fy,
dj Hkqxrku ugha fd;k x;k Fkk ;k de Hkqxrku fd;k x;k Fkk ;k buiqV dj çR;; xyr
fy;k x;k Fkk ;k xyr mi;ksx fd;k x;k Fkk ;k =qfVo'k çfrnk; çkIr fd;k x;k Fkk] ds
fy, okf"kZd fooj.kh izLrqr djus dh frfFk ls ikap o"kZ ds Hkhrj vkns'k tkjh djsxkA
¼11½ tgka dksbZ O;fDr] ftl ij mièkkjk ¼9½ ds vèkhu vkns'k dh rkehy dh xbZ gS]
èkkjk 50 ds vèkhu ml ij Hkqxrku C;kt ds lkFk dj vkSj ,sls dj ds ipkl çfr'kr ds
lerqY; 'kkfLr dk vkns'k dh lalwpuk ds rhl fnu ds Hkhrj Hkqxrku dj nsrk gS rks ,sls
uksfVl ds lacaèk esa lHkh dk;Zokfg;ksa dks iwjk gqvk le>k tk,xkA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1425
O;k[;k% O;k[;k% O;k[;k% O;k[;k% O;k[;k% 1&èkkjk 73 vkSj bl èkkjk ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,]&&
¼ i ½ ÞmDr uksfVl ds lacaèk esa lHkh dk;Zokfg;kaß esa èkkjk 132 ds vèkhu dk;Zokfg;ka
lfEefyr ugha gksaxh (
¼ ii ½ tgka mUgha dk;Zokfg;ksa ds vèkhu dj dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h eq[;
O;fDr vkSj dqN vU; O;fDr;ksa dks lwpuk tkjh dh tkrh gS vkSj ,slh
dk;Zokfg;ksa dks èkkjk 73 ;k èkkjk 74 ds vèkhu eq[; O;fDr ds fo#) iwjk
dj fy;k x;k gS rks èkkjk 122] èkkjk 125] èkkjk 129 vkSj èkkjk 130 ds
vèkhu 'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h lHkh O;fDr;ksa ds fo#)
dk;Zokfg;ksa dks iwjk gqvk le>k tk,xkA
O;k[;k 2& O;k[;k 2& O;k[;k 2&bl vfèkfu;e ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, ÞfNikukß vfHkO;fDr dk vFkZ ,sls O;k[;k 2& O;k[;k 2&
rF;ksa ;k tkudkjh dks ?kksf"kr ugha djuk ftUgsa djkèks; O;fDr ls bl
vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu fooj.kh] fooj.k]
fjiksVZ ;k fdlh vU; nLrkost esa ?kksf"kr djus dh vis{kk gS ;k fyf[kr
esa ekaxs tkus ij fdlh uksfVl dks leqfpr vfèkdkjh dks çLrqr djus esa
vlQy gksxkA
75- 75- 75- 75- 75- ¼1½ tgka fdlh uksfVl dh rkehy ;k vkns'k ds tkjh djus ij fdlh U;k;ky; ;k dj voèkkj.k ds
vihy vfèkdj.k }kjk jksd yxk nh tkrh gS rks ,slh jksd dh vofèk dks] ;FkkfLFkfr] èkkjk lacaèk esa lkèkkj.k
73 dh mièkkjk ¼2½ vkSj mièkkjk ¼10½ rFkk èkkjk 74 dh mièkkjk ¼2½ vkSj mièkkjk ¼10½ esa micaèkA
fofufnZ"V vofèk dh lax.kuk djus ls fooftZr fd;k tk,xkA
¼2½ tgka dksbZ vihy çkfèkdj.k ;k vihy vfèkdj.k ;k U;k;ky; dk ;g fu"d"kZ
gS fd èkkjk 74 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu tkjh uksfVl bl dkj.k ls ekU; ugha gS fd diV
;k tkucw>dj feF;k dFku ;k dj vioapu ds fy, rF;ksa dks fNikuk ml O;fDr ds fo#)
lkfcr ugha gksrk gS ftldks uksfVl tkjh fd;k x;k Fkk] rks leqfpr vfèkdkjh ,sls O;fDr
}kjk Hkqxrku;ksX; dj dk ;g ekurs gq, voèkkj.k djsxk fd èkkjk 73 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds
vèkhu uksfVl tkjh fd;k x;k FkkA
¼3½ tgka vihy çkfèkdj.k ;k vihy vfèkdj.k ;k U;k;ky; ds funs'kksa ds vuqlj.k
esa fdlh vkns'k dks tkjh djus dh vis{kk gS rks ,slk vkns'k mDr funs'k dh lalwpuk dh
frfFk ls nks o"kZ dh vofèk ds Hkhrj tkjh fd;k tk,xkA
¼4½ lquokbZ dk volj ogka çnku fd;k tk,xk tgka dj ;k 'kkfLr ls çHkk;Z O;fDr
dk fyf[kr vuqjksèk çkIr gksrk gS ;k tgka ,sls O;fDr ds fo#) çfrdwy fu.kZ; visf{kr gSA
¼5½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh ;fn dj ls çHkk;Z O;fDr }kjk i;kZIr dkj.k minf'kZr fd;k
tkrk gS rks mDr O;fDr dks le; çnku djsxk vkSj dkj.kksa dks ys[kc) djrs gq, lquokbZ
dks LFkfxr dj nsxk %
ijarq ,slk dksbZ LFkxu dk;Zokfg;ksa ds nkSjku fdlh O;fDr dks rhu ckj ls vfèkd
çnku ugha fd;k tk,xkA

1426 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼6½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh vius vkns'k esa lqlaxr rF;ksa rFkk fu.kZ; ds vkèkkj dk vfèkdFku
djsxkA
¼7½ vkns'k esa ekax fd, x, dj] C;kt vkSj 'kkfLr dh jkf’k uksfVl esa fofufnZ"V
jkf’k ls vfèkd ugha gksxh vkSj uksfVl esa fofufnZ"V vkèkkjksa ds fdlh vU; vkèkkj ij fdlh
ekax dh iqf"V ugha dh tk,xhA
¼8½ tgka vihy çkfèkdj.k ;k vihy vfèkdj.k ;k U;k;ky; leqfpr vfèkdkjh }kjk
voèkkfjr dj dh jkf’k dks ifjofrZr djrk gS rks C;kt vkSj 'kkfLr dh jkf’k Hkh bl çdkj
ifjofrZr dj dh jkf’k dks fopkj esa ysrs gq, rnuqlkj ifjofrZr gks tk,xhA
¼9½ de Hkqxrku fd, x, ;k Hkqxrku ugha fd, x, dj ij C;kt Hkqxrku;ksX; gksxk
pkgs dj nkf;Ro dk voèkkj.k djus okys vkns'k esa fofufnZ"V fd;k x;k gks ;k ughaA
¼10½ U;k;fu.kZ;u dk;Zokfg;ksa dks iwjk gqvk le>k tk,xk ;fn èkkjk 73 dh mièkkjk
¼10½ esa ;Fkkmicafèkr rhu o"kZ ds Hkhrj ;k èkkjk 74 dh mièkkjk ¼10½ esa ;Fkkmicafèkr ikap
o"kZ ds Hkhrj vkns'k tkjh ugha fd;k tkrk gSA
¼11½ dksbZ eqík] ftl ij vihy çkfèkdkjh ;k vihy vfèkdj.k ;k mPp U;k;ky;
}kjk viuk fofu'p; fy;k x;k gS tks fdUgha vU; dk;Zokfg;ksa esa jktLo ds fgr ds çfrdwy
gS vkSj vihy vfèkdj.k ;k mPp U;k;ky; ;k mPpre U;k;ky; esa vihy çkfèkdkjh ;k
vihy vfèkdj.k ;k mPp U;k;ky; ds ,sls fofu'p; ds fo#) dksbZ vihy yafcr gS rks
vihy çkfèkdkjh vkSj vihy vfèkdj.k ds fofu'p; dh frfFk ;k vihy vfèkdj.k vkSj mPp
U;k;ky; ds fofu'p; dh frfFk vkSj mPp U;k;ky; rFkk mPpre U;k;ky; ds fofu'p;
dh frfFk ds chp dh dkykofèk dks èkkjk 73 dh mièkkjk ¼10½ ;k èkkjk 74 dh mièkkjk ¼10½
esa fufnZ"V dkykofèk dh lax.kuk djus esa ogka fooftZr fd;k tk,xk tgka dk;Zokfg;ka mDr
èkkjkvksa ds vèkhu dkj.k crkvks lwpuk tkjh djus ds ekè;je ls çkjaHk dh xbZ gSaA
¼12½ èkkjk 73 ;k èkkjk 74 esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh tgka èkkjk 39 ds vèkhu
çLrqr fooj.kh ds vuqlkj Lor% fuèkkZfjr dj dh dksbZ jkf’k iw.kZr ;k va'kr% Hkqxrku ds fcuk
jgrh gS ;k ,sls dj ij Hkqxrku;ksX; C;kt dh dksbZ jkf’k Hkqxrku ds fcuk jgrh gS rks mldh
èkkjk 79 ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu olwyh dh tk,xhA
¼13½ tgka èkkjk 73 ;k èkkjk 74 ds vèkhu dksbZ 'kkfLr vfèkjksfir dh tkrh gS rks mlh
—R; ;k yksi ds fy, mlh O;fDr ij bl vfèkfu;e ds vU; micaèkksa ds vèkhu dksbZ 'kkfLr
vfèkjksfir ugha dh tk,xhA
lax`fgr fdarq 76- 76- 76- 76- 76- ¼1½ vihy çkfèkdj.k ;k vihy vfèkdj.k ;k U;k;ky; ds fdlh vkns'k ;k funs'k
ljdkj dks Hkqxrku esa ;k bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ;k rRle; ço`Ùk fdlh vU; fofèk
u fd;k x;k djA esa çfrdwy varfoZ"V fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh çR;sd O;fDr] ftlus fdlh vU; O;fDr ls

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1427
bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj ds :i esa fdlh jkf’k dk laxzg fd;k gS vkSj mDr jkf’k dk
ljdkj dks Hkqxrku ugha fd;k gS rks og rqjar bl ckr ds gksrs gq, fd çnk;ksa] ftuds lacaèk
esa ,slh jkf’k dk laxzg fd;k x;k gS] djkèks; gS ;k ugha] mDr jkf’k dk ljdkj dks Hkqxrku
djsxkA
¼2½ tgka mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fdlh jkf’k dk ljdkj dks Hkqxrku fd;k tkuk
visf{kr gS vkSj ftldk Hkqxrku ugha fd;k x;k gS rks leqfpr vfèkdkjh ,slh jkf’k dk Hkqxrku
djus ds fy, nk;h O;fDr dks dkj.k crkvks uksfVl tkjh djsxk fd uksfVl esa ;Fkk fofufnZ"V
mDr jkf’k dks mlds }kjk ljdkj dks Hkqxrku D;ksa ugha fd;k tkuk pkfg, rFkk uksfVl esa
fofufnZ"V jkf’k ds lerqY; 'kkfLr bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu ml ij vfèkjksfir
D;ksa ugha dh tkuh pkfg,A
¼3½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh ml O;fDr }kjk] ftl ij mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu uksfVl dh
rkehy dh xbZ gS] ds vH;kosnu] ;fn dksbZ gks] ij fopkj djus ds i'pkr~ ,sls O;fDr ls
ns; jkf’k dk fu/kkZj.k djsxk vkSj rRi'pkr~ ,slk O;fDr bl çdkj voèkkfjr jkf’k dk Hkqxrku
djsxkA
¼4½ mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V O;fDr mièkkjk ¼1½ ;k mièkkjk ¼3½ esa fufnZ"V jkf’k dk
Hkqxrku djus ds vfrfjä ml ij èkkjk 50 ds vèkhu fofufnZ"V nj ij mlds }kjk lax`fgr
jkf’k dh frfFk ls ljdkj dks ,slh jkf’k dk Hkqxrku djus dh frfFk rd C;kt dk Hkqxrku
djus dk Hkh nk;h gksxkA
¼5½ ogka lquokbZ dk volj çnku fd;k tk,xk tgka ,sls O;fDr ls] ftldks dkj.k
crkvks uksfVl tkjh fd;k x;k gS] fyf[kr vuqjksèk çkIr gksrk gSA
¼6½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh uksfVl tkjh djus dh frfFk ls ,d o"kZ ds Hkhrj vkns'k tkjh
djsxkA
¼7½ tgka vkns'k tkjh djus ij U;k;ky; ;k vihy vfèkdj.k ds fdlh vkns'k }kjk
jksd yxkbZ tkrh gS rks ,slh jksd dh dkykofèk dks ,d o"kZ dh dkykofèk dh lax.kuk djus
esa fooftZr fd;k tk,xkA
¼8½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh vius vkns'k esa vius fofu'p; ds lqlaxr rF;ksa rFkk
vk/kkj dks vfèkdfFkr djsxkA
¼9½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ;k mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu ljdkj dks Hkqxrku dh xbZ jkf’k dk
mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V çnk;ksa ds lacaèk esa O;fDr }kjk Hkqxrku;ksX; dj] ;fn dksbZ gks] ds
fo#) lek;kstu fd;k tk,xkA
¼10½ tgka mièkkjk ¼9½ ds vèkhu lek;kstu ds i'pkr~ dksbZ vkfèkD; 'ks"k cprk gS
rks ,sls vkfèkD; dh jkf’k dk ;k rks fufèk esa çR;; fd;k tk,xk ;k ml O;fDr dks çfrnk;
fd;k tk,xk ftlus ,slh jkf’k dks pqdk;k gSA

1428 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼11½ og O;fDr] ftlus jkf’k dks pqdk;k gS] èkkjk 54 ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj mldk
çfrnk; djus ds fy, vkosnu dj ldsxkA
xyrh ls lax`fgr 77- 77- 77- 77- 77- ¼1½ dksbZ 
fd;k x;k vkSj fdlh laO;ogkj ij dsaæh; dj vkSj jkT; dj Hkqxrku fd;k gS fdarq ftls i'pkRorÊ :i
dsaæh; ljdkj ;k ls varjkZT;d çnk; vfHkfuèkkZfjr fd;k x;k gS] dks bl çdkj Hkqxrku jkf’k dk ,slh jhfr
jkT; ljdkj dks esa vkSj ,slh 'krksZa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tks fofgr dh tk,] çfrnk; fd;k tk,xkA
Hkqxrku fd;k x;k
djA ¼2½ dksbZ 
fdlh laO¸ogkj ij ,dh—r dj Hkqxrku fd;k gS fdUrq ftls i'pkRorÊ :i ls jkT;kUrxZr
çnk; vfHkfuèkkZfjr fd;k x;k gS] ls] ;FkkfLFkfr] Hkqxrku;ksX; jkT; dj dh jkf’k ij C;kt
dk Hkqxrku djus dh vis{kk ugha gksxhA
olwyh dk;Zokfg;ksa 78- 78- 78- 78- 78- bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu ikfjr fdlh vkns'k ds vuqlj.k esa djkèks; O;fDr }kjk
dk vkjaHk fd;k Hkqxrku;ksX; fdlh jkf’k dks ,sls O;fDr }kjk ,sls vkns'k dh rkehy dh frfFk ls rhu ekl
tkukA dh dkykofèk ds Hkhrj Hkqxrku fd;k tk,xk] ftlds u gks ldus ij olwyh dk;Zokfg;ka vkjaHk
dh tk,axh %
ijarq tgka mfpr vfèkdkjh jktLo fgr esa ,slk djuk lehphu le>rk gS rks og
dkj.kksa dks ys[kc) djrs gq, mDr djkèks; O;fDr ls mlds }kjk ,slh rhu ekl ls de
fofufnZ"V dkykofèk ds Hkhrj Hkqxrku djus dh vis{kk dj ldsxkA
dj dh olwyhA 79- 79- 79- 79- 79- ¼1½ tgka bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds fdUgha micaèkksa ds
vèkhu fdlh O;fDr }kjk ljdkj dks Hkqxrku;ksX; fdlh jkf’k dk Hkqxrku ugha fd;k tkrk
gS rks leqfpr vfèkdkjh fuEufyf[kr ,d ;k vfèkd <axksa ls jde dks olwy dj ldsxk]
vFkkZr~%&&
¼d½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh ,sls O;fDr dks ns; fdlh jkf’k dks oSls iSls ls ftl
ij mldk LokfeRo gks vkSj mfpr vf/kdkjh ;k vU; fdlh fofufnZ"V
vkf/kdkjh ds fu;a=.k esa gks] ls bl çdkj dVkSrh dj ldsxk ;k fdlh
vU; fofufnZ"V vfèkdkjh ls ml jde dh dVkSrh djus dh vis{kk dj
ldsxkA
¼[k½ mfpr vf/kdkjh Hkqxrku;ksX; jkf'k dh olwyh ;k vU; fofufnZ"V vf/kdkjh
ls ml jkf'k dh olwyh dh vis{kk ml O;fDr ds ekyksa tks dh leqfpr
;k fofufnZ"V vf/kdkjh ds fu;=a.k esa gks] dks fu#) vkSj foØ; djds
dj ldsxkA
¼x½ ¼ i ½ mfpr vf/kdkjh] fyf[kr lwpuk ds }kjk] ,sls fdlh vU; O;fDr
dks ftlls fdlh ,sls O;fDr dks dksbZ /ku ns; gS ;k gks ldrk gS
;k ,sls fdlh vU; O;fDr dks] tks ,sls O;fDr ds fy, ;k mlds

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1429
en~ns dksbZ /ku /kkj.k djrk gS ;k Ik’pkrorhZ :i esa /kkj.k dj
ldsxk] funs’k ns ldsxk fd og ljdkj dks] fofufnZ"V jhfr ls
/ku ns; gksus ij ;k /kkj.k djus ij rqjUr uksfVl esa fofufnZ"V
le; ds Hkhrj tks /ku ns; gksus ;k /kkj.k djus ds iwoZ ugha gks
mruk /ku ftruk bl vf/kfu;e ds v/khu ml O;fDr ls ns; jkf’k
dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, Ik;kZIr gks ;k dqy /ku tc og mDr jkf’k
ds cjkcj ;k mlls de gks] tek dj nsa(
¼ ii ½ çR;sd O;fDr] ftls mi[kaM ¼ i ½ ds vèkhu uksfVl tkjh fd;k gS ,sls
uksfVl dk vuqikyu djus ds fy, vkc) gksxk vkSj fo'ks"kr;k
tgka ,slk uksfVl fdlh Mkd?kj] cSaddkjh daiuh ;k fdlh chekdrkZ
dks tkjh fd;k tkrk gS rks fdlh iklcqd] tek jlhn] ikfylh ;k
fdlh vU; nLrkost dks] fdlh çfof"V] i`"Bkadu ;k Hkqxrku fd,
tkus ls iwoZ bl ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh fd çfrdwy dksbZ fu;e] i)fr
;k vis{kk gS] çLrqr djuk vko';d ugha gksxk (
¼ iii ½ fdlh O;fDr dks] ftls mi[kaM ¼ i ½ ds vèkhu uksfVl tkjh fd;k
x;k gS] ds vuqlj.k esa ljdkj dks Hkqxrku djus esa vlQy jgus
dh n'kk esa og uksfVl esa fofufnZ"V jkf’k ds lacaèk esa O;frØeh
le>k tk,xk vkSj mls bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x,
fu;eksa ds lHkh ifj.kke ykxw gksaxs(
¼ iv ½ mi[kaM ¼ i ½ ds vèkhu uksfVl tkjh djus okyk vfèkdkjh fdlh Hkh
le; ,sls uksfVl dk la'kksèku dj ldsxk ;k çfrlagj.k dj ldsxk
;k uksfVl ds vuqlj.k esa Hkqxrku ds fy, le; dk foLrkj dj
ldsxk (
¼ v ½ mi[kaM ¼ i ½ ds vèkhu tkjh uksfVl dh vuqikyu esa dksbZ Hkqxrku
djus okys fdlh O;fDr dks O;frØeh O;fDr ds çkfèkdkj ds vèkhu
Hkqxrku djus okyk le>k tk,xk vkSj ,sls Hkqxrku ljdkj ds ikl
tek fd, tkus ij ,sls O;frØeh O;fDr ds nkf;Ro dk jlhn esa
fofufnZ"V jde dh lhek rd vPNk vkSj i;kZIr fuoZgu le>k
tk,xk(
¼ vi ½ O;frØeh O;fDr ds fdlh nkf;Ro dk mi[kaM ¼ i ½ ds vèkhu tkjh
uksfVl dh rkehy ds i'pkr~ fuoZgu djus okyk dksbZ O;fDr fuoZgu
fd, x, nkf;Ro ds lhek rd ;k O;frØeh ds dj] C;kt vkSj
'kkfLr ds nkf;Ro dh lhek rd buesa ls tks Hkh de gks] O;fDrxr
:i ls ljdkj ds çfr nk;h gksxk(

1430 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼ vii ½ tgka fdlh O;fDr ij mi/kkjk ¼1½ ds v/khu uksfVl rkehy fd;k
x;k gS ogka uksfVl tkjh djus okys vf/kdkjh ds lek/kkuizn :Ik
esa ;g lkfcr gks tkrk gS fd ekax /ku ;k mldk dksbZ Hkkx O;frØe
okys O;fDr] dks ns; ugha Fkk] ;k ftl le; ml ij uksfVl dh
rkehy dh xbZ Fkh ml le; ,sls O;fDr ds fy, ;k mldh vksj
ls dksbZ /ku ml ij /kkfjr ugha Fkk] vkSj ekaxk x;k /ku ;k mldk
dksbZ Hkkx ,sls O;fDr dks ns; gksus dks ;k ,sls O;fDr ds fy, ;k
mldh vksj ls ,sls O;fDr dk dksbZ /ku ml ij /kkfjr gksus dh
laHkkouk ugha gS] rks bl /kkjk esa varfoZ"V fdlh ckr ls ,sls O;fDr
}kjk ljdkj dks ;FkkfLFkfr ,slk dksbZ /ku ;k mlds fdlh Hkkx dk
Hkqxrku djus dh vis{kk fd;k tkuk ugha le>k tk,xk(
¼?k½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh bl fufeÙk cuk, tkus okys fu;eksa ds vuqlkj ,sls
O;fDr dh ;k mlds fu;a=.kkèkhu fdlh taxe ;k LFkkoj laifÙk dks HkqxrukFkZ
tCr dj ldsxk vkSj mls rc rd fu#) dj ldsxk tc rd fd
Hkqxrku;ksX; jkf’k dk Hkqxrku ugha dj fn;k tkrk gS vkSj mDr ns; jkf’k
dk dksbZ Hkkx ;k tCr laifr dh ykxr ;k laifÙk dks j[kus dh ykxr
vxys rhl fnu dh dkykofèk ds i'pkr~ Hkh Hkqxrku fd, fcuk jgrh gS
rks og mDr laifÙk dk foØ; dj ldsxk rFkk ,sls foØ; ds vkxeksa ls
Hkqxrku;ksX; jkf’k dks pqdk;k tk,xk rFkk vkfèkD;o çkIr jkf'k dks ,sls
O;fDr dks ns fn;k tk,xk (
¼³½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh ,sls O;fDr ls cdk;k jkf’k dks fofufnZ"V djrs gq,
Lo;a }kjk gLrk{kfjr ,d çek.ki= rS;kj djsxk vkSj bls ml ftys ds
dyDVj ;k ljdkj }kjk çkfèk—r fdlh O;fDr dks Hkstsxk] ftlesa ,sls
O;fDr dh laifÙk gS ;k tgk¡ og fuokl djrk gS ;k viuk dkjckj djrk
gS vkSj mDr dyDVj ;k mDr vfèkdkjh ,sls çek.ki= dh çkfIr ij ,sls
O;fDr ls ml çek.ki= esa fofufnZ"V jkf’k dks olwy djsxk ekuks fd og
Hkw&jktLo dk cdk;k Fkk (
¼p½ naM çfØ;k lafgrk] 1973 ¼1974 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 2½ esa varfoZ"V
fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh leqfpr vfèkdkjh leqfpr eftLVªsV ds ikl
,d vkosnu nk;j dj ldsxk vkSj ,slk eftLVªsV ,sls O;fä ls mlesa
fofufnZ"V jkf’k dks olwy djus ds fy, ,sls vxzlj gksxk ekuks ;g mlds
}kjk vfèkjksfir dksbZ tqekZuk Fkk(
¼2½ tgka bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ;k blds v/khu cuk,
x, fofu;eksa ds vèkhu fu"ikfnr dksbZ caèki= ;k fyf[kr ;g micaèk djrk gS fd ,sls fyf[kr
ds vèkhu cdk;k fdlh jkf’k dks mièkkjk ¼1½ esa vfèkdfFkr jhfr esa olwy fd;k tk,xk rks

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1431
olwyh ds fdlh vU; <ax ij çfrdwy çHkko Mkys fcuk jkf’k dh ml èkkjk ds micaèkksa ds
vuqlkj olwyh dh tk,xhA
¼3½ tgka dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dh dksbZ jkf’k bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk,
x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu fdlh O;fDr }kjk ljdkj dks ns; gS vkSj tks Hkqxrku fd, fcuk jgrh
gS rks dsUnzh; dj dk leqfpr vfèkdkjh mDr dj cdk;k dh olwyh ds çØe esa mDr O;fDr
ls jkf’k dh ,slh olwyh djsxk ekuks og dsUnzh; dj dk cdk;k Fkh vkSj bl çdkj olwy
dh xbZ jkf’k dks ljdkj ds [kkrs esa tek djsxkA
¼4½ tgka mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu olwy dh xbZ jkf’k dsaæh; ljdkj vkSj jkT; ljdkj
dh ns; jkf’k ls de gS rks lacafèkr ljdkjksa ds [kkrs esa jkf’k dk tek çR;sd ,slh ljdkj
dks ns; jkf’k ds vuqikr esa fd;k tk,xkA
80- 80- 80- 80- 80- fdlh djkèks; O;fDr }kjk nk;j fd, x, vkosnu ij vk;qDr dkj.kksa dks ys[kc) dj vkSj vU; jkf’k
djrs gq, Hkqxrku ds fy, le; dk foLrkj dj ldsxk ;k bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdlh dk fdLrksa esa
O;fDr }kjk fdlh fooj.kh esa Lor% fuèkkZfjr nkf;Ro ds vuqlkj cdk;k jkf’k ls fHkUu fdlh HkqxrkuA
jkf’k ds Hkqxrku dks èkkjk 50 ds vèkhu C;kt ds Hkqxrku ds vèkhu jgrs gq, vkSj ,slh 'krksZa
vkSj ifjlhekvksa] tks fofgr dh tk,a] ds vèkhu jgrs gq, pkSchl ls vufèkd ekfld fdLrksa
esa Hkqxrku djus ds fy, vuqefr ns ldsxk %
ijarq tgka fdlh fu;r frfFk dks fdlh ,d fdLr ds Hkqxrku esa dksbZ O;frØe gksrk
gS rks ,slh frfFk dks ns; 'ks"k jkf'k cdk;k gks tk,xh vkSj rqjar ns; gksxk rFkk fdlh vkSj
uksfVl dh ,sls O;fDr ij rkehy fd, fcuk olwyh dk nk;h gksxkA
81- 81- 81- 81- 81- tgka dksbZ O;fDr] mlls fdlh jkf’k ds ns; gks tkus ds i'pkr~ mldh ;k mlds dCts dfri; ekeyksa esa
dh fdlh laifÙk ij dksbZ çHkkj l`ftr djrk gS ;k mlls foØ;] caèkd j[kus] fofue; ;k laifÙk varj.k dk
fdlh vU; fofèk ls varj.k pkgs] tks Hkh gks] }kjk vius fdlh laifÙk dks fdlh vU; O;fDr 'kwU; gksukA
ds i{k esa ljdkjh jktLo ij diV djus ds vk'k; ls djrk gS rks ,slk çHkkj ;k varj.k
mDr O;fDr }kjk Hkqxrku;ksX; fdlh dj ;k fdlh vU; jkf'k ds laca/k esa vekU; gks tk,xk%
ijarq ;g fd ,slk çHkkj ;k varj.k vekU; ugha gksxk ;fn og i;kZIr çfrQy ds
fy, ln~HkkoiwoZd fd;k x;k gks ;k bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu ,slh yafcr dk;Zokfg;ksa] ds
uksfVl ds fcuk ,sls O;fDr }kjk ns; dj ;k fdlh vU; jkf'k ds fy, fd;k x;k gks ;k
leqfpr vfèkdkjh dh iwoZ vuqKk ls fd;k tkrk gksA
82- 82- 82- 82- 82- rRle; ykxw fdlh vU; fofèk esa nh xbZ fdlh vU; ckr ds izfrdwy gksrs gq, Hkh] dj dk laifÙk ij
flok; fnokyk vkSj 'kksèku v{kerk lafgrk] 2016 ¼2016 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 31½] esa vU;Fkk igyk çHkkj gksukA
micafèkr ds fdlh djkèks; O;fDr ;k fdlh vU; O;fDr }kjk dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr ds ys[k]s
Hkqxrku;ksX; dksbZ jkf’k] ftlds fy, og ljdkj dks Hkqxrku djus dk nk;h gS] dk ,sls
djkèks; O;fDr ;k vU; O;fDr dh laifÙk ij igyk çHkkj gksxkA

1432 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
dfri; ekeyksa esa 83- 83- 83- 83- 83- ¼1½ tgka èkkjk 62 ;k èkkjk 63 ;k èkkjk 64 ;k èkkjk 67 ;k èkkjk 73 ;k èkkjk 74 ds
jktLo ds laj{k.k vèkhu fdUgha dk;Zokfg;ksa ds yacu ds nkSjku vk;qDr dk ;g er gS fd ljdkjh jktLo ds
ds fy, vufUre
fgr dk laj{k.k djus ds ç;kstu ds fy, ,slk djuk vko';d gS rks og fyf[kr vkns'k dqdÊA
}kjk vufUre :i ls ,sls djkèks; O;fDr dh laifÙk] ftlesa cSad [kkrk Hkh 'kkfey gS] dh
,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] dqdÊ dj ldsxk A
¼2½ ,slh vufUre dqdÊ dk mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fd, x, vkns'k dh frfFk ls ,d
o"kZ dh dkykofèk dh lekfIr ds ckn çHkko ugha gksxk A
dfri; olwyh 84- 84- 84- 84- 84- tgka bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX; fdlh dj] 'kkfLr] C;kt ;k fdlh vU;
dk;Zokfg;ksa dk jkf’k ¼ftls bl èkkjk esa blds i'pkr~ Þljdkjh ns;ß dgk x;k gS½ ds lacaèk esa fdlh djkèks;
tkjh jguk vkSj
O;fDr ;k fdlh vU; O;fDr dks fdlh uksfVl dh rkehy dh tkrh gS vkSj ,sls ljdkjh
fofèkekU;dj.kA
ns;ksa ds lacaèk esa dksbZ vihy ;k iqujh{k.k vkosnu nk;j fd;k tkrk gS ;k dksbZ vU; dk;Zokfg;ka
lafLFkr dh tkrh gS rc&
¼d½ tgka ,sls ljdkjh ns;ksa dks ,slh vihy] iqujh{k.k ;k vU; dk;Zokfg;ksa esa c<+k
fn;k tkrk gS rks vk;qDr djkèks; O;fDr ;k fdlh vU; O;fDr dks ml jkf’k
ds lacaèk esa ftlds }kjk ,sls ljdkjh ns; dks c<+k fn;k tkrk gS] dh olwyh
ds fy, nwljk ekax uksfVl tkjh djsxk vkSj ,sls ljdkjh ns; ds lacaèk esa dksbZ
olwyh dk;Zokfg;ka] tks ml ij rkehy fd;s x;s ekax ds uksfVl esa vkrh gSa]
,slh vihy] iqujh{k.k ;k vU; dk;Zokfg;ksa ds fuiVku ls iwoZ fdlh u, ekax
uksfVl dh rkehy ds fcuk ml çØe ls tkjh jgsaxh] ftl ij ,slh dk;Zokfg;ka
,sls fuiVku ds Bhd iwoZ Fkh (
¼[k½ tgka ljdkjh ns;ksa dks ,slh vihy] iqujh{k.k ;k vU; dk;Zokfg;ksa esa de dj
fn;k tkrk gS rks]&
¼ i ½ vk;qDr ds fy, djkèks; O;fDr ij ekax ds u, uksfVl dh rkehy djuk
vko';d ugha gksxk (
¼ ii ½ vk;qDr ,slh deh] dh mls vkSj leqfpr çkfèkdkjh dks] ftlds ikl olwyh
dk;Zokfg;ka yafcr gSa] lalwpuk nsxk (
¼ iii ½ ,slh vihy] iqujh{k.k ;k vU; dk;Zokfg;ksa ds fuiVku ls iwoZ ml ij
rkehy dh xbZ ekax ds vkèkkj ij lafLFkr dksbZ olwyh dk;Zokfg;ka bl
çdkj de dh xbZ jkf’k ds lacaèk esa mlh çØe ls] ftl ij tgka og
,sls fuiVku ls Bhd iwoZ Fkh] tkjh jgsaxhA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1433
vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; XVI
dfri; ekeyksa esa Hkqxrku dk nkf;Ro dfri; ekeyksa esa Hkqxrku dk nkf;Ro dfri; ekeyksa esa Hkqxrku dk nkf;Ro dfri; ekeyksa esa Hkqxrku dk nkf;Ro dfri; ekeyksa esa Hkqxrku dk nkf;Ro
85- 85- 85- 85- 85- ¼1½ tgka dksbZ djkèks; O;fDr] tks bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj dk Hkqxrku djus dkjckj ds varj.k
ds fy, nk;h gS] vius dkjckj dk iw.kZr;k ;k Hkkxr% foØ;] migkj] iêk] btktr vkSj dh n'kk esa nkf;RoA
vuqKfIr] HkkM+k ;k fdlh vU; jhfr] pkgs tks Hkh gks] varj.k djrk gS rks djkèks; O;fDr vkSj
og O;fDr] ftldks bl çdkj dkjckj dk varj.k fd;k x;k gS] la;qDr :i ls vkSj i`Fkd
iw.kZr;k ;k ,sls varj.k ds ifjek.k rd djkèks; O;fDr ls ,sls varj.k rd ns; dj] C;kt
;k fdlh vU; 'kkfLr] pkgs ,sls dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk voèkkj.k ,sls varj.k ls iwoZ fd;k
x;k gks fdarq tks Hkqxrku ds fcuk jgrh gS ;k ftldk rRi'pkr~ voèkkj.k fd;k x;k gS] ds
fy, nk;h gksxkA
¼2½ tgka mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V varfjrh ,sls dkjckj dks Lo;a ds uke ls ;k fdlh
vU; ds uke ls pykrk gS rks og ,sls varj.k dh rkjh[k ls mlds }kjk çnk; fd, tkus
okys ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds fy, dj dk Hkqxrku djus vkSj ;fn og bl vfèkfu;e
ds vèkhu 
la'kksèku ds fy, vkosnu djus dk] nk;h gksxkA
86- 86- 86- 86- 86- tgka dksbZ vfHkdrkZ vius çèkku O;fDr ds fufeÙk djkèks; oLrqvksa dh çnk; djrk vfHkdrkZ vkSj çèkku
gS ;k mUgsa çkIr djrk gS rks ,slk vfHkdrkZ vkSj mldk çèkku O;fDr la;qä :i ls vkSj O;fDr dk nkf;RoA
i`Fkdr% bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu ,sls ekyksa ij Hkqxrku;ksX; dj dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy,
nk;h gksaxsA
87- 87- 87- 87- 87- ¼1½ tc nks ;k vfèkd daifu;ksa dk fdlh U;k;ky; ;k vfèkdj.k ;k vU;Fkk ds daifu;ksa ds
fu.kZ; ds vuqlj.k esa lekesyu ;k foy;u gksrk gS vkSj fu.kZ; dk vkns'k fd, tkus dh lekesyu ;k
frfFk ds iwoZ ls çHkkoh gksuk gS rFkk nks ;k mlls vfèkd ,slh daifu;ksa us ,d nwljs dks ml foy;u dh n'kk
esa nkf;RoA
frfFk ls çkjaHk gksus okyh vofèk ls vkns'k ds çHkkoh gksus dh frfFk ds chp ekyksa ;k lsokvksa
dh ;k nksuksa dks çnk; fd;k gS ;k ekyksa dks ;k lsokvksa dks ;k nksuksa dks çkIr fd;k gS rc
,slk çnk; vkSj çkfIr ds laO;ogkjksa dks lacafèkr daifu;ksa ds çnk; ;k çkfIr vkorZ esa lfEefyr
fd;k tk,xk vkSj og rn~uqlkj dj dk Hkqxrku djus dh nk;h gksxhA
¼2½ mDr vkns'k esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh bl vfèkfu;e ds ç;kstuksa
ds fy, ,slh nks ;k vfèkd daifu;ksa dks mDr vkns'k dh frfFk rd dh vofèk ds fy, fHkUu
daifu;ka le>k tk,xk vkSj mä daifu;ksa ds 
rkjh[k ls jí fd;k tk,xkA
88- 88- 88- 88- 88- ¼1½ tc dksbZ daiuh dks fdlh U;k;ky; ;k vfèkdj.k ds vkns'kksa ds vèkhu ;k ifjlekiu ds vèkhu
vU;Fkk] ifjlekIr fd;k tk jgk gS rks daiuh dh fdUgha ifjlaifÙk;ksa dks çkIr djus ds fy, daifu;ksa dh n'kk esa
ifjlekid ds :i esa fu;qDr O;fDr ¼ftls bl èkkjk esa blds i'pkr~ Þifjlekidß fufnZ"V nkf;RoA
fd;k x;k gS½] viuh fu;qfDr ds rhl fnu ds Hkhrj vk;qä dks viuh fu;qfDr dh lalwpuk
nsxkA

1434 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼2½ vk;qDr ,slh tkap djus ds i'pkr~ ;k ,slh lwpuk eaxkus ds i'pkRk~] tks og
mfpr le>s] ml frfFk ls rhu ekl ds Hkhrj] tc og ifjlekid dh fu;qfDr dh lwpuk
çkIr djrk gS] ifjlekid dks vkSj og jkf’k] tks mlds er esa fdlh dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr]
tks rc ;k rRi'pkr~ daiuh }kjk Hkqxrku;ksX; gS ;k Hkqxrku;ksX; gks tkrh gS] vfèklwfpr
djsxkA
¼3½ tc fdlh çkbosV daiuh dks ifjlekIr fd;k tkrk gS vkSj bl vfèkfu;e ds
vèkhu daiuh ij fdlh vofèk ds fy, pkgs ifjlekiu ds Øe esa ;k rRi'pkr~ voèkkfjr
dksbZ dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr] ftldks olwy ugha fd;k tk ldrk gS rks çR;sd O;fDr] tks
ml vofèk] ftlds fy, dj cdk;k gS] ds nkSjku gj ,slk O;fDr tks daiuh dk funs'kd
Fkk] la;qDr :i ls vkSj i`Fkd :i ls ,sls dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk] tc og vk;qDr ds
lekèkkuçn :i esa ;g lkfcr ugha dj nsrk gS fd ,slh u dh xbZ olwyh daiuh ds dk;ksZa
ds lacaèk esa mldh xaHkhj mis{kk] nq"dj.k ;k drZO; Hkax ds dkj.k ugha gqbZ gS] Hkqxrku djus
ds fy, nk;h gksxkA
çkbosV daifu;ksa ds 89- 89- 89- 89- 89- ¼1½ daiuh vfèkfu;e] 2013 ¼2013 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 18½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr
funs'kdksa dk ds gksrs gq, Hkh] tgka fdlh çkbosV daiuh ls fdlh vofèk ds fy, ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa
nkf;RoA
ds çnk; ds fy, dksbZ dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr] ftldks olwy ugha fd;k tk ldrk gS] cdk;k
gS rks çR;sd O;fDr] tks ml vofèk] ftlds fy, dj cdk;k gS] ds nkSjku çkbosV daiuh
dk funs'kd Fkk] la;qDr :i ls vkSj i`Fkd :i ,sls dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk] flok; tc
og vk;qDr ds lekèkkuçn :i esa ;g lkfcr ugha dj nsrk gS fd ,slh u dh xbZ olwyh
daiuh ds dk;ksZa ds lacaèk esa mldh xaHkhj mis{kk] nqf"dj.k ;k drZO; Hkax ds dkj.k ugha gqbZ
gS] Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h gksxkA
¼2½ tgka çkbosV daiuh dks fdlh ifCyd daiuh esa laifjofrZr fd;k tkrk gS vkSj
fdlh vofèk ds fy,] ftlds nkSjku ,slh daiuh] çkbosV daiuh Fkh] ds nkSjku ekyksa ;k lsokvksa
;k nksuksa dh çnk; ds fy, fdlh dj] C;kkt ;k 'kkfLr dh ,sls laifjorZu ls iwoZ olwyh
ugha dh tk ldrh gS rks mièkkjk ¼1½ esa nh xbZ dksbZ ckr ,sls fdlh O;fDr ij ykxw ugha
gksxh] tks ,slh çkbosV daiuh dk] ,slh çkbosV daiuh ds ,sls ekyksa ;k lsokvksa dh ;k nksuksa
ds çnk; ds fo#) fdlh dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr ds lacaèk esa] funs'kd Fkk :
iajrq bl mièkkjk esa nh xbZ dksbZ ckr ,sls funs'kd ij vfèkjksfir 'kkfLr oS;fDrd
ds fy,] ykxw ugha gksxhA
QeZ ds Hkkxhnkjksa dk 90- 90- 90- 90- 90- rRLke; ykxw fdlh vU; fofèk ;k fdlh lafonk esa rRçfrdwy ds gksrs gq, Hkh] tgka
dj dk Hkqxrku dksbZ QeZ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h gS
djus ds fy, rks QeZ vkSj QeZ dk çR;sd Hkkxhnkj ,sls Hkqxrku ds fy, la;qDr :i ls vkSj i`Fkd :i
nkf;RoA
ls nk;h gksxk :
ijUrq tgka dksbZ Hkkxhnkj QeZ ls lsokfuo`Ùk gks tkrk gS rks og ;k QeZ mDr Hkkxhnkj
dh lsokfuo`fÙk dh frfFk dks bl fufeÙk fyf[kr lwpuk }kjk vk;qDr dks lalwfpr djsxk vkSj

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1435
,slk Hkkxhnkj viuh lsokfuo`fÙk dh frfFk rd cdk;k dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku djus
dk] pkgs ml frfFk dks cdk;k fu/kkZfjr fd;k tk, ;k ugha] nk;h gksxk %
ijUrq ;g vkSj fd ;fn ,slh dksbZ lwpuk lsokfuo`fRr dh rkjh[k ls ,d ekl ds Hkhrj
ugha nh tkrh gS rks igys ijUrqd ds vèkhu ,sls Hkkxhnkj dk nkf;Ro ml frfFk rd cuk
jgsxk tc ,slh lwpuk vk;qDr }kjk çkIr dh tkrh gSA
91- 91- 91- 91- 91- tgka dksbZ dkjckj] ftlds lacaèk esa bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dksbZ dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr vfHkj{kdksa] U;kfl;ksa
Hkqxrku;ksX; gS] dks fdlh vO;Ld ;k fdlh vU;] v{ke O;fDr ds fufeÙk vkSj ,sls vO;Ld vkfn dk nkf;RoA
;k vU; v{ke O;fDr ds Qk;ns ds fy, fdlh vfHkj{kd] U;klh ;k vfHkdrkZ }kjk pyk;k
tkrk gS rks ,sls vfHkj{kd ;k U;klh ;k vfHkj{kd ij dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr mlh :i esa vkSj
mlh lhek rd mn~xzghr dh tk,xh vkSj olwyh tk,xh tSls fd mldk ,sls vO;Ld ;k
vU; v{ke O;fDr ds fy, voèkkj.k fd;k tkrk vkSj olwyh tkrh] ;fn og O;Ld ;k l{ke
O;fDr gksrk vkSj tSls fd og Lo;a dkjckj dk lapkyu dj jgk Fkk rFkk bl vfèkfu;e
;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds micaèk rnuqlkj ykxw gksaxsA
92- 92- 92- 92- 92- tgka fdlh djkèks; O;fDr dh laink ;k mlds fdlh Hkkx ftlds vèkhu dksbZ dkjckj çfrikY; vfèkdj.k
gS] ftlds lacaèk esa bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dksbZ dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr djkèks; gS] fdlh bR;kfn ds nkf;RoA
çfrikY; vfèkdj.k] egkç'kkld] 'kkldh; U;klh ;k fdlh çkid ;k çcaèkd ¼ftlds varxZr
dksbZ O;fDr ]pkgs fdlh Hkh inuke ls Kkr gks] tks okLro esa dkjckj dk çcaèk djrk gS½]
ftldh fu;qfDr fdlh U;k;ky; ds vkns'k ds vèkhu dh xbZ gS] ds fu;a=.kkèkhu gS] dj]
C;kt ;k 'kkfLRk izfrikY; vf/kdj.k] egkiz’kkld] 'kkldh; U;klh ;k fdlh izkid ;k
izcU/kd ls mn~xzghr dh tk,xh vkSj olwyh tk,xh Bhd oSls tSls mldk djkèks; O;fDr
ds fy, voèkkj.k fd;k tkrk vkSj olwyh dh tkrh] tSls fd djkèks; O;fDr Lo;a dkjckj
dk lapkyu dj jgk Fkk rFkk bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds micaèk
rnuqlkj ykxw gksaxsA
93- 93- 93- 93- 93- ¼1½ fnokyk vkSj 'kksèku v{kerk lafgrk] 2016 ¼2016 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 31½ dfri; ekeyksa esa
esa micafèkr ds flok;] tgka dksbZ O;fDr bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk dj] C;kt ;k
Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h gS] rc& 'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku
djus ds fy,
¼d½ ;fn O;fDr }kjk pyk, tkus okys dkjckj dks mldh e`R;q ds ckn mlds nkf;Ro ds lacaèk esa
fo'ks"k micaèkA
fofèkd çfrfufèk ;k fdlh vU; O;fDr }kjk tkjh j[kk tkrk gS rks ,slk fofèkd
çfrfufèk ;k vU; O;fDr bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu ,sls O;fDr ls cdk;k dj]
C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h gksxk( vkSj
¼[k½ ;fn ,sls O;fDr }kjk pyk, tkus okys dkjckj dks mldh e`R;q ls iwoZ ;k mlds
i'pkr~ tkjh ugha j[kk tkrk gS rks mlds fofèkd çfrfufèk e`rd dh laink ls
ml ifjek.k rd] tgk¡ rd laink ,sls O;fDr ds bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj]

1436 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku pqdkus esa l{ke gS] Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h
gksxk]
pkgs ,sls dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk voèkkj.k mldh e`R;q] ls iwoZ fd;k x;k gks fdarq tks
mldh e`R;q ds i'pkr~ Hkqxrku u fd, fcuk jgk gks ;k e`R;q ds ckn ;k voèkkfjr fd;k
x;k gSA
¼2½ fnokyk vkSj 'kksèku v{kerk lafgrk] 2016 ¼2016 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 31½
esa micafèkr ds flok;] tgka dksbZ djkèks; O;fDr] tks bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj] C;kt
;k 'kkfLra Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h gS] fgUnw vfoHkDr dqVqac ;k O;fDr;ksa dks lewg dk
lnL;( gS vkSj fgUnw vfoHkDr dqVqac ;k O;fDr;ksa ds lewg ds fofHkUu lnL;ksa ;k O;fDr;ksa
ds nyksa ds chp laifÙk dk caVokjk dj fn;k x;k gS rc çR;sd lnL; ;k lnL;ksa dk lewg
la;qDr :i ls ;k i`Fkd bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu djkèks; O;fDr ls caVokjs ds le; rd
dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h gksxk pkgs ,sls dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr
dk voèkkj.k caVokjs ls iwoZ fd;k x;k gks] tks caVokjs ds i'pkr~ Hkqxrku fd, fcuk jg x;k
gS ;k caVokjk ds ckn voèkkfjr fd;k x;k gSA
¼3½ fnokyk vkSj 'kksèku v{kerk lafgrk] 2016 ¼2016 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 31½
esa micafèkr ds flok;] tgka dksbZ djkèks; O;fDr] tks bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj] C;kt
;k 'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h gS vkSj QeZ dk fo?kVu dj fn;k x;k gS rc çR;sd
O;fDr] tks Hkkxhnkj Fkk] la;qDr :i ls ;k i`Fkdr% bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu QeZ ls ns;
]C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h gksxk pkgs ,sls dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk
voèkkj.k caVokjs ls iwoZ fd;k x;k gks] fdarq caVokjs ds i'pkr~ Hkqxrku ds fcuk jg x;k gS
;k caVokjk ds i'pkr~ voèkkfjr fd;k x;k gSA
¼4½ fnokyk vkSj 'kksèku v{kerk lafgrk] 2016 ¼2016 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 31½
esa micafèkr ds flok;] tgka dksbZ djkèks; O;fDr] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj] C;kt ;k
'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h gS]&&
¼d½ fdlh vO;Ld dk vfHkj{kd gS] ftldh vksj ls vfHkj{kd }kjk dkjckj
pyk;k tkrk gS ( ;k
¼[k½ dksbZ U;klh gS] tks fgrxzkgh fdlh U;kl ds vèkhu dkjckj dk lapkyu
djrk gS] rc ;fn laj{k.k ;k U;kl dks lekIr dj fn;k tkrk gS] vO;Ld
;k fgrxzkgh djkèks; O;fDr ls laj{k.k ;k U;kl ds lekiu rd cdk;k
dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, nk;h gksxk pkgs ,sls dj]
C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk voèkkj.k laj{k.k ;k U;kl ds lekiu ls iwoZ fd;k
x;k gks tks Hkqxrku fd, fcuk jg x;k gS ;k lekiu ds i'pkr voèkkfjr
fd;k x;k gksA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1437
94- 94- 94- 94- 94- ¼1½ tgka djkèks; O;fDr dksbZ QeZ ;k O;fDr;ksa dk laxe ;k fgUnw vfoHkDr dqVqac vU; ekeyksa esa
gS vkSj ,slh QeZ] laxe ;k dqVqac us dkjckj djuk can dj fn;k gS]& nkf;RoA
¼d½ ,slh QeZ] laxe ;k dqVqac }kjk ,sls dkjckj dks can djus dh frfFk rd
bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX; dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk fu/kkZj.k
,sls fd;k tk,xk ekuks dkjckj can gqvk gh u gks (vkSj
¼[k½ çR;sd O;fDr] tks dkjckj dks ,sls can djus ds le; ,slh QeZ ;k ,sls
laxe ;k dqVqac dk lnL; Fkk] ,slk can djuk gksrs gq, Hkh QeZ] laxe
;k dqVqac ij voèkkfjr dj vkSj C;kt ds Hkqxrku ds fy, vkSj vfèkjksfir
'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku djus ds fy, la;qDr :i ls vkSj i`FkDr% nk;h gksxk]
pkgs ,sls dj vkSj C;kt dk fu/kkZj.k ;k 'kkfLr dks mlls iwoZ vfèkjksfir
fd;k x;k gS ;k ,slk can djus ds i'pkr~ vfèkjksfir fd;k x;k gS vkSj
iwokZsDr ds vèkhu jgrs gq, bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèk tgka rd gks lds
,sls O;fDr ;k Hkkxhnkj ;k lnL;ksas ij ,sls ykxw gksaxs ekuks og djkèks;
O;fDr FkkA
¼2½ tgka QeZ ;k O;fDr;ksa ds laxe ds laxBu esa dksbZ ifjorZu gksrk gS rks QeZ
ds Hkkxhnkj ;k lewg ds lnL;] tSlk fd og iquxZBu ds iwoZ fo|eku Fks vkSj tSls fd og
mlds i'pkr~ fo|eku gSa] èkkjk 90 ds micaèkksa ij çfrdwy çHkko Mkys fcuk ,slh QeZ ;k
O;fDr;ksa ls mlds iquxZBu dh dkykofèk ls iwoZ cdk;k dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku
djus ds fy, la;qDr :i ls vkSj i`Fkd :i ls nk;h gksaxsA
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds micaèk] tgka rd gks lds] djkèks; O;fDr] tks fo?kfVr gks xbZ
QeZ ;k O;fDr;ksa dk laxe gS dks ;k djkèks; O;fDr] tks vfoHkDr fgUnw dqVqac gS] ftlus
mlds }kjk pyk, tkus okys dkjckj ds lacaèk esa foHkktu fd;k gS] dks ykxw gksaxs vkSj
rnuqlkj ml èkkjk esa can djus ds çfrfunZs'k dk ,sls fo?kVu ;k foHkktu ds leku yxk;k
tk,xkA
O;k[;k & O;k[;k & O;k[;k & bl vè;k; ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,& O;k[;k & O;k[;k &
¼ i ½ Þlhfer nkf;Ro Hkkxhnkjß tks lhfer nkf;Ro Hkkxhnkj vfèkfu;e] 2008
ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu fojfpr vkSj 
QeZ ekuk tk,xk(
¼ ii ½ ÞU;k;ky;ß ls vfHkizk; gS] ftyk U;k;ky;] mPp U;k;ky; ;k mPpre
U;k;ky;A

1438 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; XVII
vfxze fofu.kZ; vfxze fofu.kZ; vfxze fofu.kZ; vfxze fofu.kZ; vfxze fofu.kZ;
ifjHkk"kk,aA 95- 95- 95- 95- 95- bl vè;k; esa tc rd fd lanHkZ ls vU;Fkk visf{kr u gks]&&
¼d½ Þvfxze fofu.kZ;ß ls vfHkizk; gS] fdlh çkfèkdj.k ;k vihy çkfèkdj.k }kjk fdlh
vkosnd dks èkkjk 97 dh mièkkjk ¼2½ ;k èkkjk 100 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ esa ekyksa ;k
lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk;] ftls vkosnd }kjk fd;k x;k gS ;k fd, tkus dk
çLrko gS] ij fofufnZ"V fo"k;ksa ;k ç'uksa ij fn;k x;k vfxze fofu'p; (
¼[k½ Þvihy çkfèkdj.kß ls vfHkizk; gS] vfxze fofu.kZ; ds fy, èkkjk 99 ds vèkhu
xfBr vihy çkfèkdj.k (
¼x½ Þvkosndß ls vfHkizk; gS] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu 
vfHkçkIr djus dh bPNqd O;fDr(
¼?k½ Þvkosnuß ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 97 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu çkfèkdj.k dks fd;k
x;k vkosnu (
¼³½ Þçkfèkdj.kß ls vfHkizk; gS] èkkjk 96 ds vèkhu xfBr vfxze fofu.kZ; çkfèkdj.k(
vfxze fofu.kZ; 96- 96- 96- 96- 96- ¼1½ ljdkj vfèklwpuk }kjk gfj;k.kk vfxze fofu.kZ; çkfèkdj.k ds uke ls Kkr ,d
çkfèkdj.k dk xBuA çkfèkdj.k dk xBu djsxh %
ijarq ljdkj] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'k ls] fdlh vU; jkT; esa vofLFkr fdlh
çkfèkdj.k dks jkT; ds fy, çkfèkdj.k ds :i esa dk;Z djus ds fy, vfèklwfpr dj ldrh
gSA
¼2½ çkfèkdj.k] fuEukfyf[kr ls feydj cusxk]&&
¼ i ½ dsaæh; dj ds vfèkdkfj;ksa esa ls ,d lnL; ( vkSj
¼ ii ½ jkT; dj ds vfèkdkfj;ksa esa ls ,d lnL;]
ftUgsa Øe'k% dsaæh; ljdkj vkSj jkT; ljdkj }kjk fu;qDr fd;k tk,xkA
¼3½ lnL;ksa dh vgZrk,a] fu;qfDr dk <ax vkSj mudh lsok ds fucaèku vkSj 'krZsa ,slh
gksaxh] tks fofgr dh tk,aA
vfxze fofu.kZ; ds 97- 97- 97- 97- 97- ¼1½ bl vè;k; ds vèkhu vfxze fofu.kZ; çkIr djus dk bPNqd vkosnd ,sls iz:i
fy, vkosnuA vkSj ,slh jhfr esa vkSj ,slh Qhl ds lkFk] tks fofgr dh tk,] mu ç'uksa dks vfHkfyf[kr
djrs gq,] ftu ij vfxze fofu.kZ; dh bPNk dh xbZ gS] ,d vkosnu djsxk A
¼2½ og ç'u] ftl ij bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu vfxze fofu.kZ; dh bPNk dh tkrh
gS] fuEufyf[kr ds lacaèk esa gksxk]&&
¼d½ fdUghsa ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk oxÊdj.k(

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1439
¼[k½ bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu tkjh vfèklwpuk dk ykxw gksuk (
¼x½ ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds çnk; ds le; vkSj ewY; dk voèkkj.k (
¼?k½ Hkqxrku fd, x, ;k Hkqxrku fd, x, le>s x, dj ds buiqV dj
çR;; dh vuqKs;rk(
¼³½ fdUgha ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ij dj nkf;Ro dk voèkkj.k (
¼p½ D;k vkosnd ls 
¼N½ D;k vkosnd }kjk fdUgha ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ds laca/k esa fd, x,
fdlh fof’k"V dk;Z ds fo"k; ;k ifj.kke mu ekyksa ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa
dk] bl vfHkO;fDr ds vFkZ ds Hkhrj] çnk; gksrk gSA
98- 98- 98- 98- 98- ¼1½ fdlh vkosnu dh çkfIr ij çkfèkdj.k mldh ,d çfr dks lacafèkr vfèkdkjh vkosnu dh çkfIr
dks vxzsf"kr djk,xk vkSj ;fn vko';d gks rks mlls lqlaxr vfHkys[k çLrqr djus dh ekax ij çfØ;kA
djsxk%
ijarq fdlh ekeys esa tgka çkfèkdkjh }kjk fdUgh vfHkys[kksa dh ekax dh xbZ gS
rks ,sls vfHkys[kksa dks ;FkklaHko 'kh?kz mDr lacafèkr vfèkdkjh dks ykSVk fn;k tk,xkA
¼2½ çkfèkdkjh vkosnu vkSj ekaxs x, vfHkys[kksa dh tkap djus ds i'pkr~ rFkk vkosnd
;k blds çkfèk—r çfrfufèk dk lqus tkus ds ckn vkSj lacafèkr vfèkdkjh ;k mldk çkfèk—r
çfrfufèk vkns'k }kjk ;k rks vkosnu dks Lohdkj djsxk ;k vLohdkj dj nsxk%
ijarq çkfèkdkjh ogka vkosnu dks vLohdkj ugha djsxk tgka vkosnu esa mBk;k
x;k ç'u igys ls gh yafcr gS ;k vkosnd ds fdlh ekeys esa bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèkksa
ds vèkhu fdUgha dk;Zokfg;ksa esa mldk fofuf'p; fd;k tk pqdk gS&
ijarq ;g vkSj fd bl mièkkjk ds vèkhu fdlh vkosnu dk]s vkosnd dks lquokbZ
dk volj fn, fcuk vLohdkj ugha fd;k tk,xk&
ijarq ;g vkSj fd tgka vkosnu dks vLohdkj fd;k tkrk gS rks mlds vLohdkj
fd, tkus ds dkj.kksa dks vkns'k esa fofufnZ"V fd;k tk,xkA
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu fd, x, çR;sd vkns'k dh çfr vkosnd vkSj lacafèkr
vfèkdkjh dks Hksth tk,xhA
¼4½ tgka fdlh vkosnu dks mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu Lohdkj fd;k tkrk gS] ,slh vkSj
lkexzh] tks mlds le{k vkosnd }kjk j[kh tk, ;k izf/kdkjh }kjk çkIr dh tk,] dh tkap
ds i'pkr~ vkSj vkosnd ;k mlds çkfèk—r çfrfufèk ds lkFk&lkFk lacafèkr vfèkdkjh ;k
mlds çkfèk—r çfrfufèk dks lquokbZ dk volj çnku djus ds i'pkRk] vkosnu esa fofufnZ"V
ç'u ij vfxze fofu.kZ; dh mn~?kks"k.kk dh tk,xhA

1440 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼5½ tgka çkfèkdj.k ds lnL; ,sls fdlh ç'u ij erHksn ugha j[krs gS] ftl ij
vfxze fofu.kZ; dh ekax dh xbZ gS] os ml fcUnq ;k mu fcUnqvksa dks vfHkfyf[kr djsaxs] ftu
ij og erHksn ugha j[krs gS vkSj ,sls ç'uksa ij lquokbZ vkSj fofu'p; ds fy, vihy
çkfèkdj.k dks fufnZ"V djsaxsA
¼6½ çkfèkdj.k vkosnu dh çkfIr dh frfFk ls uCcs fnu ds Hkhrj fyf[kr esa vfxze
fofu.kZ; dh ?kks"k.kk djsxkA
¼7½ 
ls gLrk{kfjr rFkk ,slh jhfr esa izekf.kr tks fofgr dh tk;s] vkosnd] lEcaf/kr vf/kdkjh
RkFkk vf/kdkfjrk j[kus okys vf/kdkjh dks ,slh mn~?kks"k.kk ds ckn Hksth tk,xhA
vfxze fofu.kZ; 99- 99- 99- 99- 99- ljdkj vfxze fofu.kZ; çkfèkdj.k }kjk mn~?kksf"kr vfxze fofu.kZ; ds fo#) vihyksa
vihy çkfèkdj.k dk dh lquokbZ djus ds fy, vfèklwpuk }kjk gfj;k.kk eky vkSj lsokdj vfxze fofu.kZ; vihy
xBuA çkfèkdj.k ds uke ls Kkr ,d vihy çkfèkdj.k dk xBu djsxh] tks fuEufyf[kr ls feydj
cusxk&
¼ i ½ cksMZ }kjk ;Fkk inkfefgr dsaæh; dj eq[; vk;qDr( vkSj
¼ ii ½ jkT; dj vk;qDrA
ijarq ljdkj] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'k ls] fdlh vU; jkT; rFkk la?k jkT;{ks= esa
vofLFkr fdlh vihy çkfèkdj.k dks jkT; ds fy, vihy çkfèkdj.k ds :i esa dk;Z djus
ds fy, vfèklwfpr dj ldsxhA
vihy çkfèkdj.k dks 100- 100- 100- ¼1½ 100- 100- èkkjk 98 dh mièkkjk ¼4½ ds vèkhu mn~?kksf"kr vfxze fofu.kZ; ls O;fFkr lacafèkr
vihyA vfèkdkjh] vfèkdkfjrk j[kus okys vfèkdkjh ;k vkosnd] vihy çkfèkdj.k dks vihy dj
ldrk gSA
¼2½ bl èkkjk ds vèkhu çR;sd vihy ml frfFk] ftldks fofu.kZ; ds fo#) dh xbZ
vihy dh] lacafèkr vfèkdkjh] vfèkdkfjrk j[kus okys vfèkdkjh ;k vkosnd dks lalwpuk nh
tkrh gS] ls rhl fnu dh vofèk ds Hkhrj nk;j dh tk,xh%
ijarq vihy çkfèkdkjh dks ;fn ;g lekèkku gks tkrk gS fd vkosnd dks rhl
fnu dh mDr vofèk ds Hkhrj vkosnu djus ls i;kZIr dkj.kksa }kjk fuokfjr fd;k x;k Fkk
rks og rhl fnu ls vufèkd vkSj vofèk ds Hkhrj mls çLrqr djuk vuqKkr dj ldsxkA
¼3½ bl èkkjk ds vèkhu çR;sd vihy ,sls iz:i esa] ,slh Qhl ds lkFk rFkk ,slh jhfr
esa tks fofgr dh tk,] lR;kfir dh tk,xhA
vihy izkf/kdj.k ds 101- 101- 101- ¼1½ 101- 101- vihy izkf/kdj.k vihy ;k lanHkZ ds i{kdkjksa dks lquokbZ dk volj iznku djus
vkns’kA ds Ik’pkr ,slk vkns’k ikfjr dj ldsxk tSlk og vihy fd, x, vkns’k ;k fufnZ"V vkns’k
dh iqf"V djus ds fy, ;k mikarfjr djus ds fy, Bhd le>sA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1441
¼2½ mi/kkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V vkns’k /kkjk 100 ds v/khu vihy ds nk;j djus ;k
/kkjk 98 dh mi/kkjk 5 ds v/khu lanHkZ djus dh frfFk ls uCcs fnu dh vof/k ds Hkhrj ikfjr
fd;k tk,xkA
¼3½ tgka vihy izkf/kdj.k ds lnL;] vihy ;k funs’k esa fdlh fcUnq ;k fcUnqvksa
ij erHksn j[krs gSa rks ;g le>k tk;sxk fd vihy ;k lanHkZ ds v/khu iz’u ds laca/k esa
dksbZ vfxze fofu.kZ; tkjh ugha fd;k tk ldrk gSA
¼4½ mn~?kksf"kr vfxze fofu.kZ; dh izfr vihy izkf/kdj.k ds lnL;ksa }kjk gLrk{kfjr
rFkk ,slh jhfr esa izekf.kr tks fofgr dh tk,] mn~?kks"k.kk ds ckn vkosnd] lacaf/kr vf/kdkjh]
vf/kdkfjrk j[kus okys vf/kdkjh rFkk vf/kdkjh dks Hksth tk,xhA
102- 102- 102- çkfèkdj.k ;k vihyh çkfèkdj.k }kjk /kkjk 98 ;k /kkjk 101 ds v/khu mlds }kjk ikfjr 102- 102- vfxze fofu.kZ; dh
fdlh vkns'k dh ,slh =qfV;ksa tks vfHkys[k iVy ij Li"V gks] vkSj tks izkf/kdj.k ;k vihyh; ifj'kqf)A
izkf/kdj.k dh tkudkjh esa Lo;a vkrh gS ;k mldh tkudkjh esa lEcaf/kr vf/kdkjh]
vf/kdkfjrk j[kus okys vf/kdkjh] vkosnd ;k vihykFkhZ }kjk yk;k tkrk gS] dks vkns'k ikfjr
djus dh frfFk ls Ng ekg ds Hkhrj la’kksf/kr dj ldsxk&
ijarq ,slh dksbZ ifj'kqf)] ftldk çHkko dj nkf;Ro esa o`f) djus] buiqV dj çR;;
dh vuqKs; jkf’k dks de djus ds :i esa gksrk gS dks rc rd ugha fd;k tk,xk tc rd
fd vkosnd ;k vihykFkÊ dks lquokbZ dk volj çnku ugha dj fn;k tkrk gSA
103- 103- 103- ¼1½ 103- 103- bl vè;k; ds vèkhu çkfèkdj.k ;k vihy çkfèkdj.k }kjk mn~?kksf"kr vfxze vfxze fofu.kZ; dk
fofu.kZ; dsoy fufEufyf[kr ij ckè;dj gksxk& ykxw gksukA
¼d½ ml vkosnd ij] ftlus vfxze fofu.kZ; ds fy, èkkjk 97 dh mièkkjk ¼2½
esa fufnZ"V fdlh fo"k; ds lacaèk esa mldh vis{kk dh Fkh(
¼[k½ vkosnd ds lacaèk esa lacafèkr vfèkdkjh ;k vfèkdkfjrk j[kus okys vfèkdkjh
ijA
¼2½ mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V vfxze fofu.kZ; rc rd ckè;dj gksxk tc rd fd ewy
vfxze fofu.kZ; dh leFkZudkjh fofèk] rF; ;k ifjfLFkfr;ka u cny xb gksaA
104- 104- 104- ¼1½ 104- 104- tgka çkfèkdj.k ;k vihy çkfèkdj.k ;g ikrk gS fd èkkjk 98 dh mièkkjk ¼4½ dfri; ifjfLFkfr;ksa
ds vèkhu ;k èkkjk 101 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu mlds }kjk mn~?kksf"kr vfxze fofu.kZ; dks esa vfxze fofu.kZ;
vkosnd ;k vihykFkÊ }kjk diV ;k lkjoku~ rF;ksa dks fNikus ;k rF;ksa ds nqO;oiZns'ku }kjk dk 'kwU; gksukA
çkIr fd;k x;k gS rks og vkns'k }kjk ,sls fofu.kZ; dks vkjaHk ls gh 'kwU; ?kksf"kr dj nsxk
vkSj rRi'pkr~ bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds micaèk vkosnd ;k
vihykFkÊ ij ,sls ykxw gksaxs ekuks vfxze fofu.kZ; dHkh gqvk gh ugha Fkk&
ijUrq ;g fd bl mièkkjk ds vèkhu dksbZ vkns'k vkosnd ;k vihykFkhZ dks
lquokbZ dk volj iznku fd;s fcuk ikfjr ugha fd;k tk,xkA
O;k[;k & O;k[;k & O;k[;k & èkkjk 73 dh mièkkjk ¼2½ vkSj mièkkjk ¼10½ ;k èkkjk 74 dh mièkkjk ¼2½ O;k[;k & O;k[;k &
vkSj mièkkjk ¼10½ esa fofufnZ"V vofèk dh x.kuk djrs le; bl mièkkjk

1442 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
ds vèkhu ,sls vfxze fofu.kZ; dh frfFk ls çkjaHk gksus okyh vkSj vkns'k
dh frfFk dks lekIr gksus okyh vofèk dks vioftZr dj fn;k tk,xkA
¼2½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fd, x, vkns'k dh ,d çfr vkosnd] lacafèkr vfèkdkjh
vkSj vfèkdkfjrk j[kus okys vfèkdkjh dks Hksth tk,xhA
çkfèkdj.k vkSj 105- 105- 105- ¼1½ 105- 105- çkfèkdj.k ;k vihy çkfèkdj.k dks fuEufyf[kr ds lacaèk esa viuh 'kfDr;ksa dks
vihy çkfèkdj.k dh ç;ksx djus ds fy, flfoy çfØ;k lafgrk] 1908 ¼1908 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 5½ ds vèkhu
'kfDr;kaA flfoy U;k;ky; dh lHkh 'kfDr;ka gksaxh]&
¼d½ izdVhdj.k vkSj fujh{k.k (
¼[k½ fdlh O;fä dks gkftj djkuk vkSj 'kiFk ij mldh ijh{kk djuk (
¼x½ deh'ku tkjh djuk vkSj ys[kk cfg;ksa vkSj vU; vfHkys[kksa dks çLrqr
djus ds fy, ckè; djukA
¼2½ çkfèkdj.k ;k vihy çkfèkdj.k èkkjk 195 ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, ,d flfoy U;k;ky;
le>k tk,xk fdUrq naM çfØ;k lafgrk] 1973 ¼1974 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 2½ ds vè;k;
XXVI ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, ugha] vkSj çkfèkdj.k ;k vihy çkfèkdj.k ds le{k çR;sd dk;Zokgh
Hkkjrh; naM lafgrk] 1860 ¼1860 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 45½ dh èkkjk 193 vkSj èkkjk 228
ds vFkZ ds Hkhrj vkSj dh èkkjk 196 ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, U;kf;d dk;Zokgh le>h tk,xhA
çkfèkdj.k vkSj vihy 106- 106- 106- çkfèkdj.k ;k vihy çkfèkdj.k dks bl vè;k; ds micaèkksa ds v/khu viuh Lo;a dh 106- 106-
çkfèkdj.k dh çfØ;k fofu;fer djus dh 'kfDr gksxhA
çfØ;kA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1443
vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; XVIII
vihy vkSj iqujh{k.k vihy vkSj iqujh{k.k vihy vkSj iqujh{k.k vihy vkSj iqujh{k.k vihy vkSj iqujh{k.k
107- 107- 107- ¼1½ 107- 107- bl vfèkfu;e ;k dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vihy çkfèkdkjh dks
vf/kfu;e 12½ ds vèkhu U;k;fu.kkZ;d çkfèkdkjh }kjk ikfjr fdlh fofu'p; ;k vkns'k ls vihysaA
O;fFkr dksbZ O;fDr mDr fofu'p; ;k vkns'k lalwfpr fd;ss tkus ds rhu ekl ds Hkhrj
,sls vihy çkfèkdkjh tks fofgr fd;k tk,] dks vihy dj ldsxkA
¼2½ tgka fdlh dk;Zokgh ds Øe esa U;k;fu.kkZ;d çkfèkdkjh us bl vfèkfu;e ;k
dsUnzh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½ ds vèkhu dksbZ
fofu'p; ;k vkns'k ikfjr fd;k gS ogka vk;qDr mDr fofu'p; ;k vkns'k dh oSèkkfudrk
;k vkSfpR; ds lacaèk esa Lo;a dk lekèkku djus ds ç;kstu ds fy, Loçsj.kk ls ;k dsUnzh;
dj vk;qDr ds fuosnu ij ,slh dk;Zokgh ds vfHkys[k dh ekax vkSj ijh{k.k dj ldsxk rFkk
vkns'k }kjk ,sls fcUnqvksa ds voèkkj.k ds fy, tks mDr fofu'p; ;k vkns'k ls mn~Hkwr gksrs
gSa] mDr fou'p; ;k vkns'k dh lalwpuk dh frfFk ls Ng ekl ds Hkhrj vihy çkfèkdkjh
dks vkosnu djus ds fy, fdlh v/khuLFk vf/kdkjh dks funs'k ns ldsxk tSlk vk;qDr }kjk
vius vkns'k esa fofufnZ"V fd;k tk,A
¼3½ tgka mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu vkns'k ds vuqlj.k esa çkfèk—r vfèkdkjh vihy
çkfèkdkjh dks vkosnu djrk gS] ogka ,sls vkosnu dks vihy çkfèkdkjh }kjk ,sls vkosnu ls
,sls fuiVk;k tk;sxk ekuks ;g U;k;fu.kkZ;d çkfèkdkjh ds fofu'p; ;k vkns'k ds fo#)
dh xbZ vihy gks vkSj ,slk çkfèk—r vfèkdkjh dksbZ vihydrkZ gks rFkk bl vfèkfu;e ds
vihy ls lacafèkr micaèk ,sls vkosnu ij ykxw gksaxsA
¼4½ vihy çkfèkdkjh] ;fn mldk ;g lekèkku gks tkrk gS fd vihydrkZ] rhu ;k
Ng ekl] TkSlh Hkh fLFkfr gk]s dh iwokZsDr vofèk ds Hkhrj vihy djus ls i;kZIr dkj.kksa ls
fuokfjr fd;k x;k Fkk] rks og mls ,d ekl dh vkSj vofèk ds Hkhrj çLrqr djuk vuqKkr
djsxkA
¼5½ bl èkkjk ds vèkhu çR;sd vihy ,sls iz:Ik esa gksxh vkSj ,slh jhfr esa lR;fir
dh tk,xh tks fofgr dh tk,A
¼6½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu dksbZ vihy nk;j ugha dh tk,xh ;fn vihydrkZ us&
¼d½ visf{kr vkns'k ls mn~Hkwr dksbZ dj] C;kt] tqekZuk] Qhl vkSj 'kkfLr dk
iw.kZ ;k ,sls Hkkx dk lank; ugha fd;k gks tSlk mlds }kjk Lohdkj fd;k
x;k gS( vkSj
¼[k½ mDr vkns'k] ftlds lacaèk esa vihy nk;j dh xbZ gS] ls mn~Hkwr fookn
esa cdk;k dj dh jkf’k ds nl çfr'kr ds cjkcj jkf'k dk Hkqxrku ugha
fd;k gksA

1444 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼7½ tgka mièkkjk ¼6½ ds vèkhu vihydrkZ us jkf’k dk Hkqxrku dj fn;k gS] ogka
cdk;k jkf’k ds fy, olwyh dk;Zokfg;ka LFkfxr le>h tk,axhA
¼8½ vihy çkfèkdkjh vihydrkZ dks lquokbZ dk volj çnku djsxkA
¼9½ vihy çkfèkdkjh] ;fn mls vihy lquokbZ dh fdlh voLFkk ij i;kZIr dkj.k
nf'kZr fd;k tk, rks i{kdkjksa dks ;k muesa ls fdlh ,d dks le; nsxk vkSj fyf[kr esa
vfHkys[kc) fd, tkus okys dkj.kksa ls vihy dh lquokbZ dks LFkfxr j[ksxk&
ijUrq ,slk dksbZ LFkxu vihy dh lquokbZ ds nkSjku fdlh i{kdkj dks rhu ckj ls
vfèkd ds fy, ugha fn;k tk,xkA
¼10½ vihy çkfèkdkjh vihy dh lquokbZ ds le; vihydrkZ dks vihy ds vkèkkjksa
esa fofufnZ"V ugha fd, x, vihy ds fdlh vkèkkj dks tksM+uk vuqKkr dj ldsxk ;fn
mldk lekèkku gks tkrk gS fd vihy ds vkèkkjksa ls ml vkèkkj dk yksi tkucw>dj ;k
;qfDRk;qDr ugha FkkA
¼11½ vihy çkfèkdkjh ,slh vkSj tkap djus ds i'pkr~ tks vko';d gks] vihy fd;s
x;s vkns'k ;k fofu'p; dks laiq"V] mikarfjr ;k vikLr djus dk vkns'k djsxk tks og
U;k;laxr ;k mfpr le>s] fdUrq ml U;k;fu.kkZ;d çkfèkdkjh dks ekeyk iqu%fufnZ"V ugha
djsxk ftlus ,slk fofu'p; ;k vkns'k ikfjr fd;k Fkk&
ijUrq tCrh ds cnys esa dksbZ Qhl ;k 'kkfLr ;k tqekZuk c<+kus okyk vFkok ofèkZr ewY;
ds eky dk tCrh ;k çfrnk; dh jkf’k ;k buiqVdj çR;; ?kVkus okyk dksbZ vkns'k ikfjr
ugha fd;k tk,xk ;fn vihydrkZ dks çLrkfor vkns'k ds fo#) dkj.k nf'kZr djus dk
mfpr volj ugha ns fn;k x;k gks&
ijUrq ;g vkSj fd vihy çkfèkdj.k dh tgka dh jk; gS fd dksbZ dj Hkqxrku ugha
fd;k x;k gS ;k de lanÙk fd;k x;k gS ;k xyrh ls çfrnk; fd;k x;k gS vFkok tgka
buiqV dj çR;; xyr <ax ls çkIr fd;k x;k gS ;k mi;ksx fd;k x;k gS] ogka vihydrkZ
ls ,slk dj ;k buiqV dj çR;; ds Hkqxrku dh vis{kk djus okyk dksbZ vkns'k ikfjr ugha
fd;k tk,xk tc rd vihydrkZ dks çLrkfor vkns'k ds fo#) dkj.k nf'kZr djus dk
uksfVl ugha fn;k x;k gks vkSj èkkjk 73 ;k èkkjk 74 ds vèkhu fofufnZ"V le;&lhek ds Hkhrj
vkns'k ikfjr fd;k x;k gksA
¼12½ vihy fuiVkjk djus okys vihy çkfèkdj.k dk vkns'k fyf[kr esa gksxk vkSj
voèkkj.k ds fcUnqvksa] muij fofu'p; vkSj ,sls fofu'p; ds dkj.k fyf[kr esa gksaxsA
¼13½ vihy çkfèkdkjh] tgka ,slk djuk laHko gks] çR;sd vihy dh mldss nk;j fd,
tkus dh frfFk ls ,d o"kZ ds vofèk ds Hkhrj lquokbZ vkSj fofu'p; djsxk%
ijUrq tgka vkns'k tkjh fd;k tkuk U;k;ky; ;k vfèkdj.k ds vkns'k }kjk LFkfxr
fd;k tkrk gS] ,sls LFkxu dh vofèk ,d o"kZ dh vofèk dh x.kuk esa vioftZr dh tk,xhA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1445
¼14½ vihy ds fuiVkjs ij vihy çkfèkdkjh mlds }kjk ikfjr vkns'k dks vihydrkZ]
çR;FkÊ vkSj U;k;fu.kkZ;d çkfèkdkjh dks lalwfpr djsxkA
¼15½ vihy çkfèkdj.k }kjk ikfjr vkns'k dh ,d çfr vk;qDr ;k mlds }kjk bl
fufeÙk inkfHkfgr çkfèkdkjh dks vkSj vfèkdkfjrk j[kus okys dsUnzh; dj vk;qDr ;k mlds
}kjk bl fufeÙk inkfHkfgr çkfèkdkjh dks Hkh Hksth tk,xhA
¼16½ bl èkkjk ds vèkhu ikfjr çR;sd vkns'k èkkjk 108 ;k èkkjk 113 ;k èkkjk 117
vFkok èkkjk 118 ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq, vafre vkSj i{kdkjksa ij ckè;dkjh gksxkA
108- 108- 108- ¼1½ 108- 108- èkkjk 121 vkSj mlds vèkhu cuk, x, fdUgha fu;eksa ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu jgrs iqujh{k.k çkfèkdkjh
gq,] iqujh{k.k çkfèkdkjh Loçsj.kk ls ;k mlds }kjk çkIr fdlh lwpuk ij ;k dsaæh; dj dh 'kfä;kaA
vk;qDr ds vuqjksèk ij fdlh ,slh dk;Zokgh ds vfHkys[k dks eaxk ldsxk vkSj tkap dj ldsxk
rFkk ;fn og ;g ekurk gS fd mlds fdlh vèkhuLFk vfèkdkjh us bl vfèkfu;e ;k dsaæh;
eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½ ds vèkhu dksbZ fofu'p;
;k vkns'k ikfjr fd;k gS] tks =qfViw.kZ gS vkSj jktLo ds fgrksa ds çfrdwy gS rFkk voSèk ;k
vuqfpr gS vFkok mlus dfri; lkoku~ rF;ksa dks è;ku esa ugha j[kk gS pkgs os mDr vkns'k
ds tkjh djus ds le; miyCèk gS ;k ugha ;k Hkkjr ds fu;a=.k&egkys[kkijh{kd }kjk dh
xbZ fVIi.kh ds ikfj.kkfed gS] rks og ;fn vko';d gks rks ,slh vofèk ds fy, tks og Bhd
le>s ,sls fofu'p; ;k vkns'k ds çpkyu dks LFkfxr dj ldsxk vkSj lacafèkr O;fDr dks
lquokbZ dk volj nsus ds i'pkr~ vkSj ,slh vkSj tkap djus ds i'pkr~ tks vko';d gks
,slk vkns'k ikfjr dj ldsxk tks og U;k;laxr vkSj mfpr le>s ftlds vUrxZr mDr
fofu'p; ;k vkns'k dks ofèkZr djuk ;k mikarfjr djuk ;k vikLr djuk Hkh gSA
¼2½ iqujh{k.k çkfèkdkjh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fdlh 'kfDr dk ç;ksx ugha djsxk]
;fn&
¼d½ vkns'k èkkjk 107 ;k èkkjk 112 ;k èkkjk 117 ;k èkkjk 118 ds vèkhu vihy
ds vè;èkhu gS( ;k
¼[k½ èkkjk 107 dh mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu fofufnZ"V vofèk lekIr ugha gqbZ gS
;k iqujhf{kr fd, tkus okys fofu'p; ;k vkns'k dks ikfjr djus ds
i'pkr~ rhu o"kZ ls vfèkd le; lekIr gks x;k gS( ;k
¼x½ bl èkkjk ds vèkhu fdlh iwoZrj voLFkk ij vkns'k dks igys gh iqujh{k.k
ds fy, fy;k tk pqdk gS( ;k
¼?k½ vkns'k mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu 'kfDr;ksa ds ç;ksx esa ikfjr fd;k tk pqdk
gS%
ijUrq iqujh{k.k çkfèkdkjh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fdlh fcUnq tks fd mièkkjk ¼2½
ds [kaM ¼d½esa fofufnZ"V vihy esa mBk;k ugha x;k vkSj fofuf'pr ugha fd;k x;k ij ,sls
vkns'k esa vihy dh frfFk ls ,d o"kZ dh vof/k ds lekIr gksus ls iwoZ ;k ml mièkkjk ds
[kaM ¼[k½ esa fofufn"V rhu o"kZ dh vofèk ds lekIr gksus ls iwoZ] tks Hkh i'pkRorÊ gks] vkns’k
ikfjr dj ldsxkA

1446 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu iqujh{k.k esa ikfjr çR;sd vkns'k èkkjk 113 ;k èkkjk 117
vFkok èkkjk 118 ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq, vafre vkSj i{kdkjksa ij ckè;dkjh gksxkA
¼4½ ;fn mDr fofu'p; ;k vkns'k esa dksbZ ,slk eqík vUrj fufgr gS ftlesa vihy
vfèkdj.k ;k mPp U;k;ky; us fdlh vU; dk;Zokgh esa viuk fofu'p; fn;k gS vkSj vihy
vfèkdj.k ;k mPp U;k;ky; ds ,sls fofu'p; ds fo#) mPp U;k;ky; ;k mPpre U;k;ky;
esa dksbZ vihy yafcr gS] vihy vfèkdj.k ds fofu'p; dh frfFk ;k mPp U;k;ky; ds
fofu'p; dh frfFk vkSj mPpre U;k;ky; ds fofu'p; dh frfFk ds chp O;rhr vofèk
mièkkjk ¼2½ ds [kaM ¼[k½ esa fufnZ"V ifjlhek dh vofèk dh x.kuk djus esa vioftZr dj
nh tk,xhA tgka iqujh{k.k ds fy, dk;Zokfg;ka bl èkkjk ds vèkhu uksfVl tkjh djus ds
ekè;e ls çkjaHk dh xbZ gSaA
¼5½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu tgka vkns'k tkjh fd;k tkuk U;k;ky; ;k vihy vfèkdj.k
ds vkns'k }kjk LFkfxr fd;k tkrk gS] ,sls LFkxu dh vofèk mièkkjk ¼2½ ds [kaM ¼[k½ esa
fufnZ"V vofèk dh ifjlhek dh x.kuk esa vioftZr dj nh tk,xhA
¼6½ bl èkkjk ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, vfHkO;fDr&
¼ i ½ " vfHkys[k " esa bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu iqujh{k.k çkfèkdkjh }kjk ijh{kk ds
le; fdlh dk;Zokgh ls lacafèkr miyCèk lHkh vfHkys[k lfEefyr gksaxs(
¼ ii ½ " fofu'p; " esa iqujh{k.k çkfèkdkjh dh inoh ds uhps ds fdlh vfèkdkjh
}kjk nh xbZ lwpuk lfEefyr gksxhA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1447
109- 109- 109- 109- 109- ¼1½ bl vè;k; ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] vihy vfèkdj.k
2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] ds vèkhu xfBr eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkdj.k] bl vkSj mldh
U;k;ihBsaA
vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu vihy çkfèkdkjh ;k iqujh{k.k çkfèkdkjh }kjk ikfjr vkns'kksa ds fo#)
vihyksa dh lquokbZ djus ds fy, vihy vfèkdj.k gksxkA
¼2½ jkT; esa vofLFkr jkT; U;k;ihB vkSj {ks=h; U;k;ihBksa dk xBu vkSj vfèkdkfjrk]
dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] dh èkkjk 109
;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vuqlkj gksxhA
110- 110- 110- 110- 110- jkT; U;k;ihB vkSj {ks=h; U;k;ihBksa ds vè;{k vkSj lnL;ksa dh vgZrk,a] fu;qfä] vihy vfèkdj.k dk
osru vkSj HkRrs] inkofèk] in ls R;kxi= vkSj gVk;k tkuk] dsaUæh; eky vkSj lsok dj vè;{k vkSj lnL;]
mudh vgZrk,a] vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] dh èkkjk 110 ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj gksxkA
fu;qfä] lsok dh
'krZsa vkfnA
111- 111- 111- 111- 111- ¼1½ vihy vfèkdj.k] vius le{k fdUgha dk;Zokfg;ksa ;k vihy dks fuiVkrs le;] vihy vfèkdj.k ds
flfoy çfØ;k lafgrk] 1908 ¼1908 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 5½ esa vfèkdfFkr çfØ;k }kjk le{k çfØ;kA
vkc) ugha gksxk] ysfdu çk—frd U;k; ds fl)karksa vkSj bl vfèkfu;e rFkk blds vèkhu
cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vU; micaèkksa ds vè;èkhu funZsf'kr gksxk vkSj vihy vfèkdj.k dks viuh
çfØ;k dks fofu;fer djus dh 'kfDr gksxhA
¼2½ vihy vfèkdj.k] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu vius —R;ksa ds fuoZgu ds ç;kstuksa
ds fy,] dh 'kfDr;ka flfoy çfØ;k lafgrk] 1908 ¼1908 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 5½ ds vèkhu
flfoy U;k;ky; esa ;Fkk fofgr 'kfDr;ksa ds leku gkssaxh tks fuEufyf[kr ekeyksa ds lacaèk
esa okn ds fopkj.k ds le; gkasxh] vFkkZr~%&
¼d½ fdlh O;fDr dks leu djuk vkSj mifLFkr gksus ds fy, ck/; djus
ij mldk ijh{k.k djus(
¼[k½ nLrkostksa dh [kkst vkSj çLrqr djus dh vis{kk djus(
¼x½ 'kiFki= ij lk{; çkIr djus(
¼?k½ Hkkjrh; lk{; vfèkfu;e] 1872 ¼1872 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 1½] dh
èkkjk 123 vkSj 124 ds micaèkksa ds vè;èkhu fdlh Hkh dk;kZy; ls fdlh
yksd vfHkys[k ;k nLrkost ;k ,sls fdlh vfHkys[k ;k nLrkost dh çfr
eaxkus(
¼³½ lkf{k;ksa ;k nLrkostksa dh ijh{k.k ds fy, deh'ku tkjh djus(
¼p½ fdlh izfrosnu dks pwd ds fy, [kkfjt djus vFkok mls ,di{kh;
fofuf’pr djus(
¼N½ fdlh izfrosnu dks pwd ds fy, [kkfjt djus dk dksbZ vkns'k ;k vius
}kjk ikfjr fdlh ,di{kh; vkns'k dks vikLr djus( vkSj
¼t½ dksbZ vU; ekeyk tks fofgr fd;k tk,A

1448 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼3½ vihy vfèkdj.k }kjk fd;k x;k dksbZ vkns'k mlh jhfr esa ykxw gksxk ekuksa
fdlh U;k;ky; }kjk mlds ;gka yafcr fdlh okn esa dh xbZ fMØh gks vkSj ;g vihy
vfèkdj.k ds fy, fofèk lEer gksxk fd og vius vkns'kksa ds fu"iknu ds fy, LFkkuh;
vfèkdkfjrk ds U;k;ky; esa Hksts tks]&
¼d½ daiuh ds fo#) vkns'k dh n'kk esa] tgka daiuh dk 
fLFkr gS( ;k
¼[k½ fdlh vU; O;fä ds fo#) vkns'k dh n'kk esa] tgka lac) O;fä LosPNk
ls fuokl djrk gS ;k ykHk ds fy, O;kikfjd ;k O;fäxr :i ls dk;Z djrk gSA
¼4½ vihy vfèkdj.k ds le{k lHkh dk;Zokfg;ka Hkkjrh; naM lafgrk] ¼1860 dk
dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 45½] dh èkkjk 193 vkSj èkkjk 228 ds vFkZ esa vkSj èkkjk 196 ds ç;kstuksa
ds fy, U;kf;d dk;Zokfg;ka le>h tk,axh vkSj vihy vfèkdj.k naM çfØ;k lafgrk] 1973]
¼1974 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 2½] dh èkkjk 195 vkSj vè;k; XXVI ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,
flfoy U;k;ky; le>k tk,xkA
vihy vfèkdj.k dks 112- 112- 112- 112- 112- ¼1½ bl vfèkfu;e dh èkkjk 107 ;k èkkjk 108 ;k dsaUæh; eky vkSj lsok dj
vihyA vfèkfu;e] ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] ds vèkhu mlds fo#) ikfjr fdlh vkns'k
}kjk O;fFkr dksbZ O;fDr] ml vkns'k ftlds fo#) vihy pkgh xbZ gS] vihy djus okys
O;fDr dks lalwpuk dh frfFk ls] ,sls vkns'k ds fo#) rhu ekl ds Hkhrj vihy dj ldrk
gSA
¼2½ vihy vfèkdj.k ,slh fdlh vihy dks vius foosd ds vuqlkj Lohdkj djus
ls bUdkj dj ldrk gS tgka varoZfyr dj ;k buiqV dj çR;; ;k varoZfyr dj ;k buiqV
dj izR;; esa varj ;k ,sls vkns'k }kjk voèkkfjr tqekZus] Qhl ;k 'kkfLr dh jkf’k ipkl
gtkj #i, ls vfèkd u gksA
¼3½ vk;qDr] vkns’k dh oS|kfudrk ;k vkSfpR; ds lac/k esa Lo;a dk lek/kku djus
ds iz;kstu ds fy,] Loizsj.kk ls ;k dsUnzh; dj vk;qDr ds fuosnu ij] bl vf/kfu;e ;k
dsUnzh; eky vkSj lsok dj vf/kfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] ds v/khu
vihy 
gS vkSj ijh{k.k dj ldrk gS vkSj vkns’k }kjk vius fdlh v/khuLFk vf/kdkjh dks] mDr
vkns’k ls mn~Hkqr ,sls fcUnqvksa] ftldk mYys[k vk;qDr vius vkns’k esa djsxk] ds fofu’p;
ds fy, mDr vkns’k ds ikfjr gksus dh frfFk ls Ng ekl ds Hkhrj vihy vf/kdj.k esa vihy
djus dk funs’k dj ldrk gSA
¼4½ tgka mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu vkns'k ds vuqlj.k esa çkfèk—r vfèkdkjh vihy
vfèkdj.k dks vkosnu djrk gS] rks ,slk vkosnu vihy vfèkdj.k bl çdkj fuiVk,xk ekuksa
;g èkkjk 107 dh mièkkjk ¼11½ ds vèkhu ;k èkkjk 108 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu vkns'k ds
fo#) vihy dh xbZ Fkh vkSj bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèk ,sls vkosnu dks ykxw gksaxs tSls os
mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu nk;j vihyksa ds lacaèk esa ykxw gksrs gSaA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1449
¼5½ lwpuk dh çkfIr ij fd bl èkkjk ds vèkhu vihy dh xbZ gS] i{kdkj] ftlds
fo#) vihy dh xbZ gS] fdlh vU; ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh fd mlus ,sls vkns'k ;k mlds
fdlh Hkkx ds fo#) vihy ugha dh gS] lwpuk dh çkfIr ds iSarkyhl fnu esa] fofgr jhfr
esa lR;kfir çfrvk{ksiksa dk Kkiu] vkns'k ftlds fdlh Hkkx ds fo#) vihy dh xbZ gS]
nk;j djsxk vkSj ,slk Kkiu vihy vfèkdj.k }kjk ,sls fuLrkfjr fd;k tk,xk ekuksa vihy
mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fofufnZ"V le; esa çLrqr dh xbZ vihy gksA
¼6½ vihy vfèkdj.k] mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V vofèk ds volku ds i'pkr~ rhu
ekl esa vihy Lohdkj dj ldrk gS] ;k mièkkjk ¼5½ esa fufnZ"V vofèk ds volku ds i'pkr~
iSarkyhl fnu esa çfrvk{ksiksa dk Kkiu nk;j djus ds fy, vuqefr ns ldrk gS] ;fn ;g
lekèkku gks tk, fd bldks ml vofèk esa çLrqr u dj ikus dk mi;qä dkj.k FkkA
¼7½ vihy vfèkdj.k dks vihy ,sls izk:i] ,slh jhfr esa lR;kfir vkSj ,slh Qhl]
tks fofgr dh tk,] lfgr gksxhA
¼8½ dksbZ Hkh vihy mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu rc rd nk;j ugha dh tk,xh tc rd
vihykFkÊ fuEufyf[kr dk Hkqxrku ugha djrk gSs]&
¼d½ iw.kZ dj] C;kt] tqekZuk] Qhl dh jk’kh ds ,sls Hkkx vkSj vf/kjksfir
vkns'k ls mRiUu 'kkfLr] tks mlds }kjk Lohdkj dh xbZ gks] vkSj
¼[k½ èkkjk 107 dh mièkkjk ¼6½ ds vèkhu Hkqxrku dh xbZ jkf’k ds vfrfjDr
mDr vkns’k ls mn~Hkqr fookn esa dj dh 'ks"k jkf’k ds chl izfr’kr ds
cjkcj /kujkf'k ftlds laca/k esa vihy nk;j dh xbZ gSA
¼9½ tgka vihykFkÊ mièkkjk ¼8½ ds vuqlkj jkf’k dk Hkqxrku dj pqdk gS] rks 'ks"k
jkf’k dh olwyh dk;Zokfg;ka vihy ds fuLrkj.k rd LFkfxr le>h tk,axhA
¼10½ vihy vfèkdj.k ds le{k&
¼d½ =qfV dks Bhd djus ;k fdlh vU; ç;kstu ds fy, dksbZ vihy( ;k
¼[k½ vihy ;k fdlh vkosnu dk çR;korZu djus gsrq]
çR;sd vkosnu ,sls 'kqYd lfgr gksxk] tks fofgr fd;k tk,A
113- 113- 113- 113- 113- ¼1½ vihy vfèkdj.k] vihy ds i{kdkjksa dks lqus tkus dk volj nsus ds i'pkr~] vihy vfèkdj.k ds
fofu'p; ;k vkns'k] ftlds fo#) vihy nk;j dh xbZ gS] ds iqf"Vdj.k] mikarj.k ;k vkns'kA
vikLr djrs gq, ml ij ,slk vkns'k ikfjr dj ldrk gS] tSlk og Bhd le>s ;k vihy

Bhd le>s] ds lkFk ekeys dks vfrfjDr lk{; ysus ds i'pkr~] ;fn vko'¸kd gksa] u;s
U;k;fu.kZ;u ;k fofu'p; ds fy, okil Hkst ldrk gSA
¼2½ vihy vfHkdj.k] vihy dh lquokbZ ds fdlh Hkh le; ij ;fn i;kZIRk dkj.k
fn;k x;k gS] rks dkj.kksa dks vfHkfyf[kr djrs gq, i{kdkjksa ;k mu esa ls fdlh dks le;
çnku dj ldrk gS vkSj vihy dh lquokbZ fLFkfxr dj ldrk gS%

1450 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
ijUrq dksbZ Hkh ,slk LFkxu vihy dh lquokbZ ds nkSjku fdlh i{kdkj dks rhu ckj
ls vfèkd ugha çnku fd;k tk,xkA
¼3½ vihy vfHkdj.k] vius vkns’k esa ,slh fdlh =qfV tks Lo;a mlds laKku esa
vkrh gS ;k vk;qDr ;k dsUnzh; dj vk;qDr ;k vihy ds fdlh i{kdkj }kjk laKku esa ykbZ
tkrh gS] rks vkns’k dh frfFk ls rhu ekl dh vof/k ds Hkhrj vfHkys[k ij fdlh izR;{k =qfV
dks Bhd djus ds fy, mi/kkjk ¼1½ ds v/khu blds }kjk ikfjr fdlh vkns’k dks la’kksf/kr
dj ldrk gS%
ijUrq dksbZ Hkh la'kksèku tks dj fuèkkZj.k dh o`f) ;k okilh ;k buiqV dj çR;;
dh deh ;k fdlh vU; i{kdkj ds nkf;Ro esa vU;Fkk o`f) djrk gS] bl mi/kkjk ds vèkhu
rc rd ugha fd;k tk ldrk tc rd i{kdkj dks lquus dk volj çnku u fd;k x;k
gksA
¼4½ vihy vfèkdj.k] tgka rd laHko gks] vihy ds nk;j gksus dh frfFk ls ,d
o"kZ dh vofèk ds Hkhrj çR;sd vihy lqusxk vkSj fofu'p; djsxkA
¼5½ vihy vfèkdj.k bl /kkjk ds v/khu ikfjr çR;sd vkns'k dh çfr vihy

vkSj vk;qDr ;k vf/kdkfjrk j[kus okyk dsUnzh; dj vk;qDr dks HkstsxkA
¼6½ èkkjk 117 ;k èkkjk 118 esa micafèkr ds flok;] vihy ij vihy vfèkdj.k }kjk
ikfjr vkns'k vafre gksxk vkSj i{kdkjksa ij vkc)dkjh gksxkA
jkT; v/;{k dh 114- 114- 114- 114- 114- jkT; v/;{k] jkT; esas vihy vfHkdj.k ds jkT; U;k;ihB vkSj {ks=h; U;k;ihBksa ij
foRrh; vkSj ,slh foÙkh; vkSj ç'kklfud 'kfä;ksa dk ç;ksx djsxk] tks fofgr dh tk,a%
iz’kklfud 'kfDr;kaA
ijUrq jkT; vè;{k dks viuh ,slh foÙkh; vkSj ç'kklfud 'kfä;ksa] tSlk og Bhd
le>s] dks jkT; U;k;ihB ;k {ks=h; U;k;ihBksa ds fdlh lnL; ;k fdlh vfèkdkjh dks] ,slh
'krZ ds vèkhu jgrs gq, çR;k;ksftr djus dk çkfèkdkj gksxk fd ,slk lnL; ;k vfèkdkjh
,slh çR;k;ksftr 'kfä;ksa dk ç;ksx djrs gq, jkT; vè;{k ds funs'k] fu;a=.k vkSj i;Zos{k.k
ds vèkhu dk;Z djsxkA
vihy nkf[ky djus 115- 115- 115- 115- 115- tgka vihykFkÊ }kjk èkkjk 107 dh mièkkjk ¼6½ ;k /kkjk 112 dh mièkkjk ¼8½ ds vèkhu]
ds fy, Hkqxrku dh vihy çkfèkdkjh ;k vihy vfèkdj.k ds fdlh vkns'k ds ifj.kkeLo:i èkkjk 56 ds vèkhu
xbZ jkf’k dh okilh fofufnZ"V nj ij C;kt okil fd;k tkuk visf{kr gS] rks jkf’k dh Hkqxrku dh frfFk ls ,slh
ij C;ktA jkf’k dh okilh dh frfFk rd ,slh okilh ds laca/k esa C;kt Hkqxrku;ksX; gksXkkA
çkfèk—r çfrfufèk 116- 116- 116- 116- 116- ¼1½ ,slk dksbZ O;fDRk] tks bl vf/kfu;e ds v/khu fdUgha dk;Zokfg;ksa ds laca/k esa
dh gkftjhA bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fu;qDr fdlh vfèkdkjh] ;k vihy çkfèkdkjh ;k vihy vfèkdj.k
ds le{k gkftj gksus ds fy, gdnkj gS ;k visf{kr gS] bl vf/kfu;e ds v/khu tc vU;Fkk
ls visf{kr gks] bl èkkjk ds micaèkksa ds vè;èkhu 'kiFk ;k dFku ij ijh{k.k ds fy, O;fDrxr
:i ls gkftj gks ldrk gS] çkfèk—r çfrfufèk ds }kjk gkftj gks ldrk gSA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1451
¼2½ bl vfèkfu;e ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,] Þçkfèk—r çfrfufèkß dh vfHkO;fDr dk vFkZ
gS] mi/kkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V O;fDr }kjk mldh vksj ls gkftj gksus ds fy, ml }kjk
çkfèk—r dksbZ O;fDr &
¼d½ mldk fj'rsjnkj ;k fu;fer deZpkjh gS( ;k
¼[k½ ,slk dksbZ vfèkoDrk tks Hkkjr esa fdlh U;k;ky; esa çSfDVl djus dk
gdnkj gS vkSj ftls Hkkjr esa fdlh U;k;ky; ds le{k çSfDVl djus
ls çfrcafèkr ugha fd;k x;k gS( ;k
¼x½ dksbZ pkVZMZ ,dkmaVsaV] ykxr ys[kkiky ;k daiuh lfpo] tks çSfDVl
djus dk çek.k&i= j[krk gS vkSj ftls çSfDVl djus ls çfrcafèkr ugha
fd;k x;k gS( ;k
¼?k½ fdlh jkT; ljdkj ;k la?k jkT;{ks= ;k cksMZ ds okf.kT; dj foHkkx
;k cksMZ dk lsokfuo`Rr vfèkdkjh ftlus ljdkj ds vèkhu viuh lsok
ds nkSjku xzqi [k jktif=r vfèkdkjh dh jSad ls vU;wu in ij de ls
de nks o"kZ dh vofèk rd lsok dh gks%
ijarq ,slk dksbZ vfèkdkjh viuh lsokfuo`fRr ;k inR;kx dh frfFk
ls ,d o"kZ dh vofèk ds fy, bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdUgha dk;Zokfg;ksa
ds le{k gkftj gksus ds fy, gdnkj ugha gksxk( ;k
¼³½ dksbZ O;fDr tks lac) 
çSfDVldrkZ ds :i esa dk;Z djus ds fy, çkfèk—r fd;k x;k gSA
¼3½ dksbZ O;fDr]&
¼d½ tks ljdkjh lsok ls c[kkZLr ;k gVk;k x;k gks( ;k
¼[k½ tks bl vfèkfu;e] dsUnzh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017
dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] lesfdr eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017
¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 13½] ;k la?k jkT;{ks= eky vkSj lsok dj
vfèkfu;e] ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 14½ ;k fo|eku fofèk ;k eky
ds foØ; ;k eky ds iznk; ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa ij dj yxkus ls
lacafèkr jkT; foèkkue.My }kjk ikfjr fdUgha vf/kfu;ekssa ds vèkhu
fdUgha dk;Zokfg;ksa ls lacafèkr fdlh vijkèk dk nks"kfl) gks( ;k
¼x½ tks fofgr çkfèkdkjh }kjk nqO;Zogkj dk nks"kh ik;k x;k gks( ;k
¼?k½ tks fnokfy;k ds :i esa U;k;fu.kÊr gks pqdk gks]
mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fdlh O;?fDr dk çfrfufèkRo djus ds fy, ik= ugha gksxk&&
¼ i ½ [kaM ¼d½] ¼[k½ vkSj ¼x½ esa fufnZ"V O;fDr;ksa ds ekeys esa lnSo ds fy,(
vkSj
¼ ii ½ [kaM ¼?k½ esa fufnZ"V fdlh O;fDrRo ds ekeys esa ml vofèk ds nkSjku
tc rd fnokfy;kiu tkjh jgsA

1452 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼4½ dksbZ O;fDr tks dsUnzh; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e ;k vU; jkT; ds eky
vkSj lsok dj vf/kfu;e ;k la?k jkT;{ks= eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu
v;ksX; ?kksf"kr gS] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu Hkh v;ksX; le>k tk,xkA
mPp U;k;ky; dks 117- 117- 117- 117- 117- ¼1½ vihy vf/kdj.k dh jkT; U;k;ihB ;k {ks=h; U;k;ihBksa }kjk ikfjr fdlh
vihyA vkns'k ls O;fFkr dksbZ O;fDr mPp U;k;ky; esa vihy nk;j dj ldrk gS vkSj mPp
U;k;ky; ,slh vihy dks Lohdkj dj ldrk gS] ;fn ;g lekèkku gks tk, fd ekeys esa
fofèk dk dksbZ lkjoku ç'u vUrfuZfgr gSA
¼2½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu dksbZ vihy] O;fFkr O;fDr }kjk vkns’k] ftlds fo#)
vihy dh xbZ gS] izkIr djus dh frfFk ls ,d lkS vLlh fnu dh vofèk esa nk;j dh tk
ldrh gS vkSj ;g ,sls çk:i esa] vkSj ,slh lR;kfir jhfr esa gksxh tks fofgr dh tk,%
ijUrq mPp U;k;ky; mDr vofèk ds volku ds i'pkr~ Hkh vihy xzg.k dj ldrk
gS ;fn mldk ;g lekèkku gks tk, fd ,slh vofèk esa bldks nk;j u dj ikus dk leqfpr
dkj.k FkkA
¼3½ tgka mPp U;k;ky; dk lekèkku gks tk, fd fdlh ekeys esa fofèk dk lkjoku
ç'u vUrfuZfgr gS ogka og ml ç'u dks fojfpr djsxk vkSj dsoy bl çdkj fojfpr ç'u
ij vihy dh lquokbZ djsxk rFkk izfroknh vihy dh lquokbZ ds nkSjku fd ekeys esa ,slk
ç'u vUrfuZfgr ugha gS] cgl djus ds fy, vuqKs; gksaxs%
ijUrq bl mièkkjk dh fdlh ckr ds ckjs esa ;g ugha le>k tk,xk fd og ys[kc)
fd, tkus okys dkj.kksa ls U;k;ky; dh fdlh vihy dh] mlds }kjk fojfpr u fd, x,
fofèk ds fdlh vU; lkjoku ç'u ij lquokbZ djus dh 'kfä dks lekIr djus ;k mldk
vYihdj.k djus ds :i esa ugha le>k tk,xk] ;fn mldk ;g lekèkku gks tkrk gS fd
ekeys esa ,slk ç'u vUrfuZfgr gSA
¼4½ mPp U;k;;ky; bl çdkj fofu;fer fofèk ds ç'u dk fofu'p; djsxk vkSj
,sls fu.kZ; dks mu vkèkkjksa lfgr ftu ij ,slk fu.kZ; vkèkkfjr gSa] çnku djsxk vkSj ,slh
ykxr yxk ldsxk tks og Bhd le>sA
¼5½ mPp] U;k;ky; fdlh ,sls okn dks voèkkfjr dj ldrk gS] tks&
¼d½ jkT; U;k;ihB ;k {ks=h; U;k;ihBksa }kjk voèkkfjr u fd;k x;k gks( ;k
¼[k½ mièkkjk ¼3½ esa ;Fkk fufnZ"V ,sls fofèk ds ç'u ij fofu'p; ds dkj.k
jkT; U;k;ihB ;k {ks=h; U;k;ihBksa }kjk =qfViw.kZ voèkkj.k fd;k x;k
gksA
¼6½ tgka mPp U;k;ky; ds le{k dksbZ vihy nk;j dh xbZ gks] ogka ;g mPp
U;k;ky; ds nks U;k;kèkh'kksa ls de dh U;k;ihB }kjk ugha lquh tk,xh vkSj ,sls U;k;/kh’kksa
ds er ;k U;k;kèkh'kksa] ;fn dksbZ gksa] rks muds cgqer ds er ds vuqlkj fofu'p; dh
tk,xhA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1453
¼7½ tgka ,slk dksbZ cgqer ugha gS] ogka U;k;kèkh'k fofèk ds ml fcanq dks crk,axs
ftl ij os erkarj j[krs gSa vkSj ogka dsoy ml fcanq ij mPp U;k;ky; ds ,d ;k vfèkd
vU; U;k;kèkh'kksa }kjk ekeys dks lquk tk,xk vkSj ,sls U;k;kèkh'kksa] ftUgksaaus igys bl ekeys
dks lquk gS] lfgr ds cgqer ds er ds vuqlkj ,sls fcanq ij fofu'p; fd;k tk,xkA
¼8½ tgka mPp U;k;ky; us bl èkkjk ds vèkhu nk;j vihy esa fu.kZ; ns fn;k gS]
rks ,sls fu.kZ; dks çHkko bldh lR;kfir çfrfyfi ds vkèkkj ij fdlh i{k }kjk fn;k tk,xkA
¼9½ bl vfèkfu;e esa vU;Fkk ls micafèkr ds flok;] flfoy çfØ;k lafgrk] 1908
¼1908 dks dsUnzh; vf/kfu; 5½ ds micaèk] tks mPp U;k;ky; dks vihy djus ls lacafèkr
gSa] tgka rd laHko gks bl èkkjk ds vèkhu vihy ds ekeyksa esa ykxw gksaxsA
118- 118- 118- 118- 118- ¼1½ ,slh vihy tks mPpre U;k;ky; esa gksxh& mPpre U;k;ky;
dks vihyA
¼d½ vihy vfèkdj.k dh jk"Vªh; U;k;ihB ;k çkarh; U;k;ihBksa }kjk ikfjr
fdlh vkns'k ds fo#)( ;k
¼[k½ fdlh ekeys esa èkkjk 117 ds vèkhu dh xbZ vihy esa mPp U;k;ky;
}kjk ikfjr fdlh fu.kZ; ;k vkns'k ds fo#)] tks Lor% ;k O;fFkr
i{kdkj }kjk ;k mlds fufeÙk ds }kjk fd, x, vkosnu ij] fu.kZ; ;k
vkns'k ds ikfjr gksus ds rqjar ckn mPp U;k;ky; }kjk çekf.kr fd;k
x;k gks fd mPPre U;k;ky; dks vihy djus ds fy, mfpr ekeyk
gSA
¼2½ flfoy çfØ;k lafgrk 1908 ¼1908 dks dsUnzh; vf/kfu; 5½ ds micaèk] tks
mPpre U;k;ky; dks vihy djus ls lacafèkr gSa] tgka rd laHko gks] bl èkkjk ds vèkhu
vihy ds ekeyksa esa ml rjg ykxw gksaxs tSls mPp U;k;ky; dh fMxzh dh vihy ds ekeys
esa gksrs gSaA
¼3½ tgka mPp U;k;ky; dk fu.kZ;] vihy esa cnyk ;k mYVk x;k gks] ogka mPpre
U;k;ky; dk fu.kZ; mPp U;k;ky; ds fu.kZ; ds ekeys esa èkkjk 117 esa ;Fkk micafèkr jhfr
esa izHkkoh gksxkA
119- 119- 119- 119- 119- fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] mPp U;k;ky; ;k mPpre U;k;ky; esa vihy nk;j vihy bR;kfn ds
dh xbZ gS] èkkjk 113 ds mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu vihy vfèkdj.k dh jk"Vªh; ;k çkarh; U;k;ihBksa gksrs gq, Hkh Hkqxrku
}kjk ikfjr vkns’k ;k èkkjk 113 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu vihy vfèkdj.k ds jkT¸k U;k;ihB dh tkus okyh ns;
/ku jkf’kA
;k {ks=h; U;k;ihBksa ;k èkkjk 117 ds vèkhu mPp U;k;ky; }kjk ;FkkfLFkfr ikfjr fdlh
vkns'k ds ifj.kkeLo:i ljdkj dks nh tkus okyh jkf'k bl çdkj ikfjr vkns'k ds vuqlkj
Hkqxrku;ksX; gksxhA
120- 120- 120- 120- 120- ¼1½ vk;qDr] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] bl vè;k; ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu jkT; dj dfri; ekeyksa esa
dk vfèkdkjh }kjk nk;j dh tkus okyh vihy ;k vkosnu ds fofu;eu ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, vihy dk nk;j
,slh fdlh ekSfæd lhek] tSlk og mfpr le>s] fu;r djrs gq, le;&le; ij] vkns’kksa ugha fd;k tkukA
;k vuqns’kksa ;k funsZ’kksa dks tkjh dj ldrk gSA

1454 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼2½ tgka mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu tkjh vkns'kksa] vuqns'kksa ;k funs'kksa ds vuqlj.k esa]
jkT; dj dk vfèkdkjh] bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu ikfjr fdlh fofu'p; ;k vkns'k
ds fo#) dksbZ vihy ;k vkosnu nk;j ugha djrk gS] ;g jkT; dj ds ,sls vfèkdkjh dks
fdlh vU; ekeys esa varfuZfgr leku ;k lerqY; fookn ;k fofèk ds ç'u ds fo#) vihy
;k vkosnu nk;j djus ls ugha jksdsxkA
¼3½ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] ;g rF; gS fd mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu tkjh vkns'kksa
;k vuqns'kksa ;k funs'kksa ds vuqlj.k esa jkT; dj ds vfèkdkjh }kjk dksbZ vihy ;k vkosnu
nk;j ugha fd;k x;k gS] dksbZ O;fDr] vihy ;k vkosnu esa i{kdkj gksrs gq, Hkh] fdlh vihy
;k vkosnu ds nk;j u fd, tkus ij fookfnr fcanq ij fofu'p; ls jkT; dj dk vfèkdkjh
voxr Fkk] vk'kf;r ugha djsxkA
¼4½ vihy vfèkdj.k ;k U;k;ky; ,slh vihy ;k vkosnu dks lqurs le;] mièkkjk
¼1½ ds vèkhu tkjh vkns'kksa ;k vuqns'kksa ;k funs'kksa ds vuqlj.k esa jkT; dj ds vfèkdkjh
}kjk vihy ;k vkosnu nk;j u fd, tkus dh ifjfLFkfr;ksa dks è;ku esa j[ksxkA
vihy u fd, tk 121- 121- 121- 121- 121- bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèkksa ds izfrdwy fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] jkT; dj ds
ldus okys vfèkdkjh }kjk fy, x, fofuf'p; ;k ikfjr vkns'k ds fo#) vihy ugha gks ldsxh] ;fn
fofu'p; vkSj
,slk fy;k x;k fofu'p; ;k ikfjr vkns'k fuEufyf[kr esa ls fdlh ,d ;k vfèkd ekeyksa
vkns'kA
ls lacafèkr gS vFkkZr~%&
¼d½ dk;Zokfg;ksa dks ,d vfèkdkjh ls nwljs vfèkdkjh dks lhèks varfjr djus
esa l'kDr vk;qDr ;k vU; 
¼[k½ ys[kk iqLrd] jftLVj vkSj vU; nLrkostksa dks tCr djus ;k jksds
j[kus ls lacafèkr fdlh vkns'k( ;k
¼x½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu vfHk;kstu dh eatwjh nsus okyks fdlh vkns'k(
;k
¼?k½ èkkjk 80 ds vèkhu ikfjr fdlh vkns'kA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1455
vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; XIX
vijkèk vkSj 'kkfLr;ka vijkèk vkSj 'kkfLr;ka vijkèk vkSj 'kkfLr;ka vijkèk vkSj 'kkfLr;ka vijkèk vkSj 'kkfLr;ka
122- 122- 122- 122- 122- ¼1½ tgka dksbZ djkèks; O;fDr tks& dfri; vijkèkksa ds
fy, 'kkfLrA
¼ i ½ fdlh chtd ds tkjh fd, fcuk fdlh eky ;k lsok ;k nksuksa dh çnk;drkZ
gS ;k ,slh fdlh çnk; ds laca/k esa xyr ;k >wBk chtd tkjh djrk
gS(
¼ ii ½ bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds micU/kksa ds mYya?ku
esa eky ;k lsok ;k nksuksa dh iznk; fd, fcuk chtd ;k fcy tkjh
djrk gS(
¼ iii ½ dj ds :i esa fdlh jkf’k dk laxzg djrk gS ysfdu mldks ljdkj dks]
ml frfFk] ftldks ,slk Hkqxrku ns; gks x;k gS] ls rhu ekl dh
vof/k ls ijs mldk Hkwxrku djus esa vlQy jgrk gS(
¼ iv ½ bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèkksa dh mYay?kuk esa fdlh dj dk laxzg djrk
gS ysfdu mldks ljdkj dks Hkqxrku djus esa rhu ekl ls ijs] ml
frfFk ls tc ,slk Hkqxrku ns; Fkk] djus esa vlQy jgrk gS(
¼ v ½ èkkjk 51 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj dj dVkSrh esa vlQy
jgrk gS ;k mDr mi/kkjk ds vèkhu dVkSrh dh tkus okyh visf{kr jkf’k
ls de jkf’k dh dVkSrh djrk gS ;k tgka og mldks mièkkjk ¼2½ ds
vèkhu ljdkj dks dj ds :i esa dVkSrh dh xbZ jkf’k dk Hkqxrku djus
esa vlQy jgrk gS(
¼ vi ½ èkkjk 52 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ dh micaèkksa ds vuqlkj dj laxzg djus esa
vlQy jgrk gS ;k mDr mi&/kkjk ds vèkhu dVkSrh dh tkus okyh
visf{kr jkf’k ls de jkf’k dh dVkSrh djrk gS ;k tgka og ljdkj dks
èkkjk 52 dh mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu dj ds :i esa dVkSrh dh xbZ jkf’k
dk Hkqxrku djus esa vlQy jgrk gS(
¼ vii ½ bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa dh micaèkksa dh mYya?kuk
esa pkgs iw.kZr% ;k vkaf'kd :i ls eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dh okLrfod
jlhn ds fcuk buiqV dj çR;; dks ysrk ;k miHkksx djrk gS(
¼ viii ½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj dh okilh diViw.kZ rjhds ls çkIr djrk
gS(
¼ ix ½ èkkjk 20 ;k blds vèkhu cuk, x, fu;eksa dh mYya?kuk esa buiqV dj
çR;; çkIr djrk gS ;k ckaVrk gS(

1456 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼ x ½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu ns; dj ds vioapu ls cpus ds vk'k; ls
foÙrh; vfHkys[kksa dks cnyrk gS ;k >wBykrk gS ;k QtÊ ys[kksa ;k
nLrkrostksa ;k fdlh >wBh lwpuk ;k fooj.kh çLrqr djrk gS(
¼ xi ½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu 
çkIr djus esa vlQy jgrk gS(
¼ xii ½ jftLVªdj.k dk vkosnu djrs le; ;k mlds ckn 
fooj.k ds laca/k esa dksbZ xyr lwpuk nsrk gS(
¼ xiii ½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu vius drZO;ksa dk fuoZgu djus ls fdlh vfèkdkjh
dks jksdrk gS ;k çokfjr djrk gS(
¼ xiv ½ bl fufer ;Fkk fofufnZ"V nLrkostksa ds fcuk djkèks; fdlh eky dk
ifjogu djrk gS(
¼ xv ½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj ds vioapu ds fy, vius vkorZ dks fNikrk
gS(
¼ xvi ½ bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds micaèkksa vuqlkj ds
ys[kk iqLrdksa vkSj vU; nLrkostksa dks j[kus] cuk, j[kus ;k çfrèkkfjr
djus esa vlQy jgrk gS(
¼ xvii ½ bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj
fdlh vfèkdkjh }kjk ekaxh xbZ lwpuk ;k nLrkostksa dks çLrqr djus esa
vlQy jgrk gS ;k bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdUgha dk;Zokfg;ksa ds
nkSjku >wBh lwpuk ;k nLrkostksa dks çLrqr djrk gS(
¼ xviii ½,sls fdlh eky dh çnk;] ifjogu ;k HkaMkj.k djrk gS ftlds fy,
mldks fo’okl djus dk i;kZIr dkj.k gS fd ;s bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu
çfrgj.k ds fy, nk;h gSa(
¼ xix ½ vU; 
chtd ;k nLrk~ost dks tkjh djrk gS(
¼ xx ½ fdlh lkjHkwr lk{; ;k nLrkostksa ls NsM+NkM+ djrk gS ;k u"V djrk
gS(
¼ xxi ½ fdlh eky dks fu"ikfnr ;k NsM+NkM+ djrk gS tks bl vfèkfu;e ds
vèkhu jksdk] tCr ;k dqØ fd;k gqvk gS]
og nl gtkj #i, ;k vioafpr dj ;k èkkjk 51 ds vèkhu dVkSrh u fd, x, dj ;k de
dVkSrh fd, x, dj ;k dVkSrh fd, x, ijarq ljdkj dks Hkqxrku ugha fd, x, dj ;k

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1457
èkkjk 52 ds vèkhu lax`ghr ugha fd, x, dj ;k de lax`ghr ;k lax`ghr ijarq ljdkj dks
Hkqxrku ugha fd, x, dj ;k buiqV dj çR;; ij fy, x, ;k vfu;fer :i ls ikfjr
;k forfjr ;k diViw.kZ <ax ls nkok dh xbZ okilh ds lerqY; jkf’k] tks Hkh vf/kd gks]
dh 'kkfLr ds Hkqxrku ds fy, nk;h gksxkA
¼2½ ,slk dksbZ 
djrk gS ftu ij fdlh dj dk Hkqxrku ugha fd;k gS ;k de Hkqxrku fd;k gS ;k =qfViw.kZ
<ax ls okil fy;k gS] ;k tgka buiqV dj çR;; xyr :i ls fy;k gS ;k ç;ksx fd;k
gS]&
¼d½ diV ;k fdlh tkucw>dj feF;k vfHkdFku ;k dj vioapuk ds fy,
rF;ksa dks Nqik;k tkus ls vU;Fkk fdlh dkj.k ds fy, ,slk O;fDr nl
gtkj #Ik, ;k mldh vkSj ns; dj dk nl çfr'kr] tks Hkh vf/kd gks]
dh 'kkfLr ds fy, nk;h gksxkA
¼[k½ diV ;k fdlh tkucw>dj feF;k vfHkdFku ;k dj vioapuk ds fy,
rF;ksa dks Nqik;k tkus ds dkj.k ,slk O;fDr nl gtkj #i, ;k mldh
vksj ns; dj ds lerqY;] tks Hkh v/khd gks] 'kkfLr ds fy, nk;h gksxkA
¼3½ dksbZ O;fä tks&
¼d½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds [kaM ¼i½ ls [kaM ¼xxi½ esa fofufnZ"V vijkèkksa esa ls fdlh
ds fy, lgk;rk ;k nq"çsj.k djrk gS(
¼[k½ fdlh ,sls eky dk dCtk çkIr djrk gS ;k mlds ifjogu] gVkus] tek
djus] j[kus] fNikus] çnk; djus ;k Ø; ;k fdlh vU; jhfr esa fdlh
çdkj vius dks lac) djrk gS] ftlds ckjs esa og tkurk gS ;k fo’okl
djus dk dkj.k j[krk gS fd og bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk,
fu;eksa ds vèkhu çfrgj.k ds fy, nk;h gS(
¼x½ fdlh ,slh lsok dks çkIr djrk gS ;k bldh çnk; ls fdlh çdkj lac)
jgrk gS ;k fdlh vU; jhfr esa lsok ds fdlh çnk; dks djrk gS ftlds
fy, og tkurk gS ;k fo'okl djus dk dkj.k gS fd ;g bl vfèkfu;e
;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds fdUgha micU/kksa dh mYya?ku gS(
¼?k½ fdlh tkap esa lk{; ;k nLrkost dks çLrqr djus ds fy, gkftjh gsrq
lEeu tkjh gksus ij jkT; dj vfèkdkjh ds le{k gkftj gksus esa vlQy
jgrk gS(
¼³½ bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj
chtd tkjh djus esa vlQy jgrk gS ;k viuh ys[kk iqLrdksa esa chtd
dh çfof"V djus esa vleFkZ jgrk gS]
,slh 'kkfLr ds fy, nk;h gksxk tks iPphl gtkj #i, rd c<kbZ tk ldrh gSA

1458 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
lwpuk fooj.kh nsus 123- 123- 123- 123- 123- ;fn dksbZ O;fDr ftlls èkkjk 150 ds vèkhu lwpuk fooj.kh nsuk visf{kr gS] og
esa vlQy jgus ij mldh mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu tkjh uksfVl esa fofufnZ"V vof/k ds Hkhrj ,slk djus esa vlQy
'kkfLrA
jgrk gS] rks leqfpr vfèkdkjh funs'k ns ldrk gS fd ,slk O;fä ,slh vofèk ds çR;sd fnu]
ftlds nkSjku ,slh fooj.kh nsus esa vlQy jgrk gS] ds fy, ,d lkS #i, dh 'kkfLr ds
fy, nk;h gksxk%
ijarq bl èkkjk ds vèkhu vfèkjksfir 'kkfLr ikap gtkj ls vfèkd ugha gksxhA
vkadM+s nsus esa 124- 124- 124- 124- 124- ;fn fdlh O;fä ls èkkjk 151 ds vèkhu lwpuk ;k fooj.kh nsuk visf{kr gS]&
vlQYk jgus ij
¼d½ ml èkkjk ds vèkhu ;Fkk visf{kr ,slh lwpuk ;k fooj.kh ;qfä;qDr tqekZukA
dkj.k ds fcuk nsus esa vlQYk jgrk gS( ;k
¼[k½ dksbZ lwpuk ;k fooj.kh] ftls og tkurk gS fd >wBh gS] dks tkucw>&dj
çLrqr djrk gS ;k izLrqr djokrk gS]
og ,sls tqekZus ls] tks nl gtkj rd gks ldrk gS vkSj vkxs vijkèk tkjh jgus dh n'kk
esa] tks çFke fnu ds ckn çR;sd fnu] ftl ds nkSjku vijkèk tkjh jgrk gS] iPphl gtkj
#i, dh vfèkdre lhek ds vè;èkhu] ds fy, ,d lkS #i, c<k;k tk ldrk gS] tqekZus
ls naMuh; gksxkA
lkèkkj.k 'kkfLrA 125- 125- 125- 125- 125- dksbZ O;fDr] tks bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds fdUgha micaèkksa]
ftlds fy, bl vfèkfu;e esa i`Fkd~ :i ls dksbZ 'kkfLr micaf/kr ugha gS] dk mYya?ku djrk
gS] ,slh 'kkfLr ds fy, nk;h gksxk tks iPphl gtkj #i, rd gks ldrh gSA
'kkfLr ls lacafèkr 126- 126- 126- 126- 126- ¼1½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dksbZ Hkh vfèkdkjh] dj fofu;eu ;k çfØ;kRed
lkèkkj.k vuq'kkluA vis{kkvksa ds NksVs Hkax vkSj fof’k"Vr;k nLrkosthdj.k esa dksbZ yksi ;k xyrh] ftls vklkuh
ls 'kq~) fd;k tk ldrk gS rFkk tks fcuk diViw.kZ vk'k; ;k lexz ykijokgh dh gSa] ds
fy, dksbZ 'kkfLr vfèkjksfir ugha djsxkA
O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-&bl mièkkjk ds ç;kstu ds fy,& O;k[;k-& O;k[;k-&
¼d½ dksbZ Hkax] ftlesa ikap gtkj #i, ls de dk dj varoZfyr gS] ßNksVk
Hkaxß ekuk tk,xk(
¼[k½ nLrkosthdj.k esa dksbZ yksi ;k xyrh] vklkuh ls 'kq) dh tk ldus
okyh gS] ;fn og vfHkys[k ij dksbZ çR;{k =qfV gSA
¼2½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu vfèkjksfir 'kkfLr] rF;ksa vkSj çR;sd ekeys dh ifjfLFkfr;ksa
ij fuHkZj gksxh rFkk ;g Hkax dh dksfV vkSj xaHkhjrk ds vuqikr esa gksxhA
¼3½ fdlh Hkh O;fä ij] mls lquokbZ dk volj fn, fcuk] dksbZ 'kkfLr vfèkjksfir
ugha dh tk,xhA
¼4½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dksbZ vfèkdkjh] fdlh fofèk] fofu;e ;k çfØ;kRed
vis{kk ds Hkax ds vkns'k esa 'kkfLr vfèkjksfir djrs le; Hkax dh ç—fr vkSj ykxw fofèk]

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1459
fofu;e ;k çfØ;k,a ftuds vèkhu Hkax ds fy, 'kkfLr dh jkf’k fofufnZ"V dh xbZ gS] fofufnZ"V
djsxkA
¼5½ tc dksbZ O;fä bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu vfèkdkjh }kjk Hkax dh [kkst ls igys
dj fofèk] fofu;e ;k çfØ;kRed vis{kkvksa ds Hkax dh ifjfLFkfr;ka bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu
fdlh vfèkdkjh dks LosPNk çdV dj nsrk gS] rks leqfpr vfèkdkjh ml O;fä ds fy, 'kkfLr
dh x.kuk djrs le; bl rF; ij U;wudkjh ?kVd ds :i esa fopkj djsxkA
¼6½ bl èkkjk ds micaèk ,sls ekeyksa esa ykxq ugha gksaxs tgka bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu
fofufnZ"V 'kkfLr ;k rks fu;r jkf'k gS ;k fu;r çfr'kr ds :i esa vfHkO;Dr gSA
127- 127- 127- 127- 127- tgka leqfpr vfèkdkjh dk ;g er gS fd dksbZ O;fä 'kkfLr ds fy, nk;h gS vkSj dfri; ekeyksa esa
og èkkjk 62 ;k èkkjk 63 ;k èkkjk 64 ;k èkkjk 73 ;k èkkjk 74 ;k èkkjk 129 ;k èkkjk 130 ds 'kkfLr vfèkjksfir
djus dh 'kfäA vèkhu fdUgha dk;Zokfg;ksa esa ugha vkrh gS] rks og ,sls O;fä dks ;qfDr;qDr lquokbZ dk volj
nsus ds i'pkr~ ,slh 'kkfLr mnx`ghr djus dk vkns'k tkjh dj ldrk gSA
128- 128- 128- 128- 128- ljdkj] vfèklwpuk }kjk] djnkrkvksa ds ,sls oxZ ds fy, èkkjk 122 ;k èkkjk 123 ;k 'kkfLr ;k 'kqYd ;k
èkkjk 125 esa fufnZ"V fdlh 'kkfLr ;k èkkjk 47 esa fufnZ"V fdlh foyac 'kqYd Hkkxr% ;k iw.kZr% nksuksa ds vfèkR;tu
vkSj ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'k ij mlesa ;Fkk fofufnZ"V ,slh U;wuhdj.k ifjfLFkfr;ksa ds vèkhu djus dh 'kfäA
vfèkR;tu dj ldrh gSA
129- 129- 129- 129- 129- ¼1½ bl vfèkfu;e esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] tgka dksbZ O;fä fdlh vfHkj{kk] vfHkxzg.k
eky dk ifjogu ;k eky dk HkaMkj.k djrk gS tc os vfHkogu esa bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds vkSj eky dh fueZqfä
v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds micaèkksa ds mYya?kuk djrsa gSa] rks ,sls lHkh eky vkSj mä eky rFkk vfHkogu esa
çog.kA
dks ys tkus ds fy, ifjogu ds lkèkuksa ds :i esa ç;qä izog.k vkSj ,sls eky ls lacafèkr
nLrkost vkSj izog.k] vfHkj{kk esa ysus ;k vfHkxzg.k ds fy, nk;h gksaxs rFkk vfHkj{kk ;k
vfHkxzg.k ds ckn fuEufyf[kr vk/kkjksa ij fueZqDr fd, tk,aaxs]&
¼d½ ,sls eky ij ykxw dj vkSj Hkqxrku;ksX; dj ds ,d lkS çfr'kr ds
cjkcj 'kkfLr ds Hkqxrku ij vkSj NwV çkIr eky dh n'kk esa] eky ds
ewY; ds nks çfr'kr ds cjkcj jkf’k ;k iPphl gtkj #i,] tks Hkh de
gks] ds Hkqxrku ij] tgka eky dk Lokeh ,sls dj vkSj 'kkfLr ds Hkqxrku
ds fy, vkxs vkrk gS(
¼[k½ ,sls eky ij ykxw dj vkSj ml ij Hkqxrku dh xbZ dj jkf’k dks de
djrs gq, eky ds ewY; dk ipkl çfr'kr ds cjkcj 'kkfLr ds Hkqxrku
ij] vkSj NwV çkIr eky dh n'kk eas] eky ds ewY; ds ikap çfr'kr
ds cjkcj jkf’k ;k iPphl gtkj #i, tks Hkh de gks] ds Hkqxrku ij]
tgka eky dk Lokeh ,sls dj vkSj 'kkfLr ds Hkqxrku ds fy, vkxs ugha
vkrk gS(
¼x½ ,sls ç:i vkSj jhfr] tks fofgr dh tk,] esa [kaM ¼d½ ;k [kaM ¼[k½ ds
vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX; jkf’k ds cjkcj çfrHkwfr nsus ij%

1460 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
ijarq dksbZ Hkh eky ;k izog.k] eky dk ifjogu djus ds fy, O;fä ij vfHkj{kk
;k vfHkxzg.k ds vkns'k ds rkehy djk, fcuk vfHkj{kk ;k vfHkxzg.k ugha fd;k tk,xkA
¼2½ èkkjk 67 dh mièkkjk ¼6½ ds micaèk] eky vkSj izog.k dh vfHkj{kk vkSj vfHkxzg.k]
ds fy, ;Fkk vko';d ifjorZu lfgr ykxw gksaxsA
¼3½ eky ;k izog.k dh vfHkj{kk ;k vfHkxzg.k djus okyk leqfpr vf/kdkjh] Hkqxrku;ksX;
dj vkSj 'kkfLr dks fofufnZ"V djrs gq, uksfVl tkjh djsxk vkSj mlds i'pkr~ [kaM ¼d½
;k [kaM ¼[k½ ;k [kaM ¼x½ ds vèkhu dj vkSj 'kkfLr ds Hkqxrku ds fy, ,d vkns'k ikfjr
djsxkA
¼4½ lac) O;fä dks lquokbZ dk volj fn, fcuk dksbZ dj] C;kt ;k 'kkfLr
mièkkjk ¼3½ ds vèkhu voèkkfjr ugha dh tk,xhA
¼5½ mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V jkf’k ds Hkqxrku ij] mièkkjk ¼3½ esa fofufnZ"V uksfVl
ds laca/k esa lHkh dk;Zokfg;ka lekIr le>h tk,axhA
¼6½ tgka fdlh eky dk ifjogu djus okyk O;fä ;k eky dk Lokeh ,slh vfHkj{kk
;k vfHkxzg.k ds lkr fnu ds Hkhrj mièkkjk ¼1½ esa ;Fkk micafèkr dj vkSj 'kkfLr dh jkf’k
dk Hkqxrku djus esa vlQy jgrk gS] rks vkxs dk;Zokfg;ka èkkjk 130 ds mica/kksa ds vuqlkj
vkjaHk dh tk,axh%
ijarq tgka vfHkj{kk ;k vfHkxzg.k dk eky 'kh?kz u"V gksus ;ksX; gS ;k [krjukd gS
;k le; ds lkFk ewY; esa deh gksus dh LkEHkkouk gS] rks mä lkr fnu dh vofèk leqfpr
vfèkdkjh }kjk de dh tk ldrh gSA
eky ;k izog.k dh 130- 130- 130- 130- 130- ¼1½ bl vfèkfu;e esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] ;fn dksbZ O;fä&
tCrh vkSj 'kkfLr (i) bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds vèkhu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds fdUgha mica/kksa dh
dk mn~xzg.kA
mYya?kuk esa dj Hkqxrku ds vioapu ds vk'k; ls eky dh iznk; ;k
izkfIr djrk gS( ;k
(ii) fdlh ,sls eky ds fy, ys[kk ugha j[krk gS ftl ij og bl vfèkfu;e
ds vèkhu dj Hkqxrku ds fy, nk;h gS( ;k
(iii) 
ds fy, nk;h fdlh eky dh çnk; djrk gS( ;k
(iv) bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds fdUgha mica/kksa dh
mYy?kauk dj Hkqxrku ds vioapu ds vk’k; ls djrk gS( ;k
(v) bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds micaèkksa dh mYya?kuk
esa eky dks <ksus ds fy, ifjogu lk/ku ds :i esa fdlh izog.k dk
ç;ksx djrk gS tc rd izog.k dk Lokeh ;g fl) u dj ns fd izog.k

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1461
mldh ;k mlds vfHkdrkZ] ;fn dksbZ gks] dh tkudkjh ;k feyhHkxr
ds fcuk bl izdkj iz;ksx fd;k x;k gS vkSj izog.k dk dk;ZizHkkjh O;fDr]&
rc ,slk lHkh eky ;k izog.k dh tCrh ds fy, nk;h gksxk vkSj O;fDr /kkjk 122 ds
v/khu 'kkfLr ds fy, nk;h gksxkA
¼2½ tc dHkh fdlh eky ;k izog.k dh tCrh bl vfèkfu;e }kjk çkfèk—r gS] rks
mldks U;k;fu.kZ;u djus okyk vfèkdkjh eky ds Lokeh dks tCrh ds cnys ,slk tqekZuk]
tks mä vfèkdkjh Bhd le>s] dk Hkqxrku djus dk fodYi nsxk%
ijarq mn~xzg.kh; ,slk tqekZuk] tCr fd, x, eky ij izHkkfjr dj ?kVkus ds i'pkr~
mlds cktkj ewY; ls vfèkd ugha gksxk%
ijarq ;g vkSj fd mn~xzg.kh; ,slk tqekZuk vkSj 'kkfLr] èkkjk 129 dh mièkkjk ¼1½
ds vèkhu mn~xzg.kh; 'kkfLr dh jkf’k ls de ugha gksxh%
ijarq ;g vkSj fd tgka eky ;k HkkM+s ij ;kf=;ksa dks <ksus esa dksbZ ,slk izog.k ç;qDr
fd;k x;k gS] rks izog.k ds ekfyd dks izog.k dh tCrh ds cnys esa mlesa ifjogu fd,
eky ij Hkqxrku;ksX; dj ds cjkcj tqekZus dk Hkqxrku djus dk fodYi fn;k tk,xkA
¼3½ tgka mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu fdlh eky ;k izog.k dks tCrh ds cnys dksbZ
tqekZuk vfèkjksfir fd;k x;k gS] ogka ,sls eky ;k izog.k Lokeh ;k mièkkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V
O;fä] blds vfrfjä] ,sls eky ;k izog.k ds laca/k esa Hkqxrku;ksX; dksbZ dj] 'kkfLr vkSj
çHkkjksa ds fy, nk;h gksxkA
¼4½ eky ;k izog.k dh tCrh ;k 'kkfLr dk vfèkjksi.k ds fy, dksbZ vkns'k ,sls
O;fä dks lquokbZ dk volj fn, fcuk tkjh fd;k ugha tk,xkA
¼5½ tgka bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdlh eky ;k izog.k dks tCr dj fy;k x;k
gS] ogka ,sls eky ;k izog.k dk LokfeRo mlds ckn ljdkj esa fufgr gks tk,xkA
¼6½ tCrh ds U;k;fu.kZ;u dk leqfpr vfèkdkjh] tCr oLrqvksa dk dCtk ysxk vkSj
èkkj.k djsxk rFkk çR;sd iqfyl vfèkdkjh ,sls leqfpr vfèkdkjh dh vis{kk ij ,slk dCtk
ysus vkSj èkkj.k djus esa mldks lg;ksx djsxkA
¼7½ leqfpr vfèkdkjh] Lo;a ds lekèkku ds ckn fd tCr eky ;k izog.k bl
vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdUgha vU; dk;Zokfg;ksa esa visf{kr ugha gS vkSj tCrh ds cnys esa tqekZus
dk Hkqxrku djus gsrq rhu ekl ls vufèkd ;qfä;qä le; nsus ds ckn] ,sls eky ;k izog.k
dk fuLrkj.k djsxk vkSj mlds foØ; vkxeksa dks ljdkj ds ikl tek djsxkA
131- 131- 131- 131- 131- naM çfØ;k lafgrk] 1973 ¼1974 dsUnzh; vf/fu;e 2½ esa varfoZ"V micaèkksa ij çfrdwy tCrh ;k 'kkfLr dk
çHkko Mkys fcuk] bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu dh vU; n.Mksa esa ck/kk
xbZ tCrh ;k vfèkjksfir 'kkfLr] fdlh vU; naM] ftlls çHkkfor O;fä bl vfèkfu;e ds ugha MkyukA
micU/kksa ds v/khu ;k ml lEk; ykxw fdlh vU; fofèk ds vèkhu nk;h gS] dks iznku djus
ls ugha jksdsxhA

1462 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
dfri; vijkèkksa ds 132- 132- 132- 132- 132- ¼1½ tks dksbZ Hkh fuEufyf[kr esa ls fdlh vijk/k dks dkfjr djrk gS] vFkkZr~ &
fy, naMA
¼d½ bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa dh mYya?kuk esa fdlh
chtd dks tkjh fd, fcuk fdlh eky ;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dh çnk;
vioapu ds vk'k; ls djrk gS(
¼[k½ bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa dh mYya?kuk esa buiqV
dj çR;; ;k dj dh okilh ds vuqfpr mi;ksx ;k iz;ksx ds fy, eky
;k lsok ;k nksuksa dh çnk; chtd ;k fcy tkjh fd;s fcuk djrk gS(
¼x½ [kaM ¼[k½ esa fufnZ"V ,sls chtd ;k fcy dk iz;ksx djrs gq,s buiqV dj
çR;; çkIr djrk gS(
¼?k½ dj ds :i esa dksbZ jkf’k lax`ghr djrk gS fdUrq mls ml frfFk] ftldks
,slk Hkqxrku ns; gks tkrk gS] ls rhu ekl dh vofèk ds i'pkr~ rd
ljdkj dks Hkqxrku djus esa vlQy jgrk gS(
¼³½ dj vioapu] diV ls buiqV dj çR;; dh çkfIr ;k diV ls dj dh
okilhçkIr djuk vkSj tgka ,slk vijkèk [kaM ¼d½ ls ¼?k½ esa ugha vkrk
gS(
¼p½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu ns; dj ds Hkqxrku ds vioapu ds vk'k; ls
foÙkh; vfHkys[kksa dks cnyrk gS ;k >wBykrk gS ;k >wBs ys[kk ;k nLrkostksa
dks çLrqr djrk gS ;k fdlh >wBh lwpuk çLÙkqr djrk gS(
¼N½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdlh vfèkdkjh dks mlds drZO;ksa ds fuoZgu
ls jksdrk gS ;k çokfjr djrk gS(
¼t½ fdlh eky] ftls og tkurk gS ;k fo'okl djus dk dkj.k j[krk gS
fd og bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds v/khu tCr
djus ds fy, nk;h gS] dk dCtk vftZr djrk gS ;k ifjogu esa Lo;a
dks fdlh ekè;e ls lac) djrk gS] gVkrk gS ;k tek djrk gS] j[krk
gS] fNikrk gS] çnk; djrk gS ;k Ø; djrk gS ;k fdlh vU; jhfr esa
mudk laO;ogkj djrk gS(
¼>½ lsokvksa dks izkIr djrk gS ;k lsokvksa dh iznk; esa fdlh vU; izkdj ls
laca) j[krk gS] ;k fdlh vU; jhfr esa lsokvksa dh fdlh iznk; yxk
jgrk gS] ftldks og tkurs gq, djrk gS ;k fo'okl djus dk dkj.k
j[krk gS fd bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, fu;eksa ds micaèkksa
ds mYya?ku esa gS(
¼¥½ fdlh lkjHkwr lk{; ;k nLrkost ls NsM+NkM+ djrk gS ;k u"V djrk
gS(

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1463
¼V½ fdlh lwpuk dk çnk; djus esa vlQy jgrk gS] ftls ml }kjk bl
vfèkfu;e esa ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa dss vèkhu çnk; dh tkuh
visf{kr gS ;k ¼fcuk ;qfä;qä fo’okl lfgr] ftls fl) djus dk Hkkj
ml ij gS fd mlds }kjk çnk; dh xbZ lwpuk lR; gS½ >wBh lwpuk
nsrk gS( ;k
¼B½ bl èkkjk ds [kaM ¼d½ ls ¼V½ esa fufnZ"V vijkèkksa esa ls fdlh ds dkfjr
djus dk ç;kl djrk gS ;k nq"çsj.k djrk gS]
naMuh; gksxk&
(i) tgka dj vioapu dh jkf’k ;k xyr :i ls yh xbZ ;k ç;ksx dh tk
pqdh buiqV dj çR;; dh jkf’k ;k xyr :Ik ls okil çkIr dh xbZ
jkf’k ikap lkS yk[k #i, ls vfèkd gks] ,sls dkjkokl ls tks ikap o"kZ
rd dk gks ldrk gS vkSj tqekZuk lfgr(
(ii) tgka dj vioapu dh jkf’k ;k xyr :i ls yh xbZ ;k ç;ksx dh tk
pqdh buiqV dj çR;; dh jkf’k ;k xyr :Ik ls okil çkIr dh xbZ
jkf’k nks lkS yk[k #i, ls vfèkd gS ysfdu ikap lkS yk[k #i, ls
vufèkd gS] rks ,sls dkjkokl ls tks rhu o"kZ rd gks ldrk gS vkSj
tqekZuk lfgr(
(iii) tgka dj vioapu dh jkf’k ;k xyr :i ls yh xbZ ;k ç;ksx dh tk
pqdh buiqV dj izR;; dh jkf’k ;k xyr :Ik ls okil çkIr dh xbZ
jkf’k ,d lkS yk[k #i, ls vfèkd gS ysfdu nks lkS yk[k #i, ls
vufèkd gS] rks ,sls dkjkokl ls tks ,d o"kZ rd gks ldrk gS vkSj tqekZuk
lfgr(
(iv) tgka og [kaM ¼p½ ;k [kaM ¼N½ ;k [kaM ¼¥½ esa fofufnZ"V fdlh vijkèk
dks djrk gS ;k vijkèk dks djus ds fy, nq"çsj.k djrk gS] rks og ,sls
dkjkokl ls tks Ng ekl rd gks ldrk gS ;k tqekZuk lfgr ;k nksuksa
lsA
¼2½ tgka dksbZ O;fDr bl èkkjk ds vèkhu vijkèk dk nks"kfl) gS rFkk iqu% bl èkkjk
ds vèkhu nks"kfl) gksrk gS] rks og nwljs vkSj çR;sd i'pkrorhZ vijkèk ds fy, ,sls dkjkokl
ls tks ikap o"kZ rd dk gks ldrk gS vkSj tqekZuk lfgr] n.Muh; gksxkA
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds [kaM (i) ] (ii) vkSj (iii) vkSj mièkkjk ¼2½ esa fufnZ"V dkjkokl]
U;k;ky; ds U;k;fu.kZ; esa vfHkfyf[kr fd, tkus okys izfrdwy fo’ks"k vkSj Ik;kZIr dkj.kksa
dh vuqifLFkfr esa] Ng ekl ls de vofèk dk ugha gksxkA
¼4½ naM çfØ;k lafgrk] 1973 ¼1974 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 2½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr
ds gksrs gq, Hkh] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu lHkh vijkèk] mièkkjk ¼5½ esa fufnZ"V vijkèkksa ds
flok;] vlaKs; vkSj tekurh; gkasxsA

1464 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼5½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds [kaM ¼d½ ;k [kaM ¼[k½ ;k [kaM ¼x½ ;k [kaM ¼?k½ esa fofufnZ"V
vkSj ml mièkkjk ds [kaM (i) ds vèkhu naMuh; vijkèk] laKs; vkSj xSj tekurh; gkssaxsA
¼6½ dksbZ O;fä vk;qDr dh iwoZ vuqefr fcuk bl èkkjk ds vèkhu fdlh vijkèk ds
fy, vfHk;ksftr ugha fd;k tk,xkA
O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& bl èkkjk ds ç;kstu ds fy,] in ßdjß esa bl vfèkfu;e] dsaæh; eky
vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 12½] ,dh—
r eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e
13½] ds micU/kksa ds v/khu vioafpr dj dh jkf’k ;k xyr :i ls yh
xbZ ;k ç;qä dh xbZ buiqV dj izR;; dh jkf’k ;k xyr :i ls okil
izkIr dh xbZ jkf’k rFkk eky vkSj lsok dj ¼jkT;ksa dks çfrdj½ vfèkfu;e]
2017 ¼2017 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 14½ ds vèkhu mn~x`ghr midj lfEefyr
gSA
vfèkdkfj;ksa vkSj 133- 133- 133- 133- 133- ¼1½ tgka dksbZ O;fä èkkjk 151 ds vèkhu lkaf[;fd;ksa ds laxzg.k ;k lesdu ;k
dfri; vU; muds daI;wVjhdj.k ;k ;fn èkkjk 150 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fofufnZ"V lwpuk rd igqap
O;fä;ksa dk ds fy, jkT; dj dk dksbZ vfèkdkjh yxk gqvk gS ;k leku iksVZy ij lsok ds micaèkksa ds
nkf;RoA lacaèk esa yxk dksbZ O;fä ;k ;fn leku iksVZy dk vfHkdrkZ] mä èkkjkvksa ds vèkhu mlds
drZO;ksa ds fu"iknu ;k bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu ;k rRle; ykxw fdlh vU; vfèkfu;e ds
vèkhu fdlh vijkèk ds vfHk;kstu ds ç;kstu ls vU;Fkk bl vf/kfu;e ;k blds v/khu
cuk, x, fu;eksa ds v/khu izLrqr fdlh lwpuk ;k fooj.kh ds va’k tkucw>dj izdV djrk
gS] rks ,sls dkjkokl ls tks Ng ekl rd gks ldrk gS ;k tqekZus ls tks iPphl gtkj #i,
rd gks ldrk gS ;k nksuksa ls naMuh; gksxkA
¼2½ dksbZ O;fä]&&
¼d½ tks ljdkjh lsod gS] bl èkkjk ds vèkhu fdlh vijkèk ds fy, ljdkj
dh iwoZ vuqefr ds fcuk vfHk;ksftr ugha fd;k tk,xk(
¼[k½ tks ljdkjh lsod ugha gS] bl èkkjk ds vèkhu vijkèk ds fy, vk;qDr
dh fcuk iwoZ vuqefr ds vfHk;ksftr ugha fd;k tk,xkA
vijkèk dk laKkuA 134- 134- 134- 134- 134- dksbZ Hkh U;k;ky; bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds v/khu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu naMuh;
fdlh vijkèk dk laKku vk;qDr dh iwoZ vuqefr ds fcuk ugha ysxk vkSj çFke Js.kh eftLVªsV
ls uhps dk dksbZ U;k;ky; vijkèk dk fopkj.k ugha djsxkA
vkijkfèkd ekufld 135- 135- 135- 135- 135- bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdlh vijkèk dk vfHk;kstu tks vfHk;qDr ds Hkkx ij
n'kk dk vuqekuA vkijkfèkd ekufld n'kk visf{kr gS] U;k;ky; ,slh ekufld n'kk dh fo|ekurk dk vuqeku
yxk,xk ysfdu ;g vfHk;qä ds fy, ;g rF; fl) djus ds fy, ,d cpko gksxk fd og
ml vfHk;kstu esa vijkèk ds :i esa vkjksfir dk;Z ds laca/k esa ,slh ekufld n’kk dk ugha
FkkA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1465
O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k&bl /kkjk ds iz;kstuksa gsrq& O;k[;k& O;k[;k&
(i) ßvkijkfèkd ekufld n'kkÞ vfHkO;fDr esa vk'k;] mís';] rF; dk Kku]
vkSj rF; esa fo’okl ;k fo'okl djus dk dkj.k lfEefyr gS(
(ii) rF; dsoy rc fl) fd;k gqvk dgk tk,xk tc U;k;ky; bl ij
fcuk ;qä;qä lansg ds fo’okl djrk gS vkSj tc bldh fo|ekurk
dsoy laHkkO;rk dh çkFkfedrk }kjk LFkkfir ugha gSA
136- 136- 136- 136- 136- bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdlh tkap ;k dk;Zokfg;ksa ds nkSjku èkkjk 70 ds vèkhu tkjh dfri; ifjfLFkfr;ksa
fdlh lEeu ds lanHkZ esa gkftj fdlh O;fä }kjk fd;k x;k vkSj gLrk{kfjr dFku] bl ds vèkhu dFkukas dh
vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdlh vijkèk ds fy, fdlh vfHk;kstu esa fl) djus ds ç;kstu ds lqlaxrrkA
fy, lqlaxr gksxk] ftleas rF; dh lR;rk ds laca/k esa fuEufyf[kr gksxk&
¼d½ tc fdlh O;fä ftlus dFku fd;k gS] dh e`R;q gks x;h gS ;k fey
ugha jgk gS ;k lk{; nsus esa v{ke gS ;k fojksèkh i{k }kjk nwj j[kk x;k
gS] ;k ftldh mifLFkfr foyEc jkf’k ;k [kpZ ds fcuk çkIr ugha dh
tk ldrh gS] ekeys dh ifjfLFkfr;ksa ds vèkhu U;k;ky; vukSfpR;iw.kZ
ekusxk( ;k
¼[k½ tc fdlh O;fä] ftlus dFku fd;k gS] dk U;k;ky; ds le{k ekeys
esa lk{kh ds :i esa mldk ijh{k.k fd;k x;k gS vkSj U;k;ky; dk er
gS fd ekeys dh ifjfLFkfr;ksa dks è;ku esa j[krs gq, dFku dks U;k; fgr
esa lk{; ds :i esa Lohdkj fd;k tkuk pkfg,A
137- 137- 137- 137- 137- ¼1½ tgka bl vf/kfu;e ds v/khu vijk/k djus okyk dksbZ O;fDr ,d daiuh gS] daifu;ksa }kjk
rks ogka ,slk çR;sd O;fä] vijkèk ds fd, tkus ds le; ml daiuh ds dkjckj ds lapkyu vijkèkA
ds fy, ml daiuh dk çHkkjh vkSj mlds çfr mÙkjnk;h Fkk vkSj lkFk gh og daiuh Hkh]
,sls vijkèk ds fy, nks"kh le>s tk,xh vkSj rn~uqlkj vius fo#) dk;Zokgh fd, tkus vkSj
nafMr fd, tkus ds nk;h gksaxs%
¼2½ mièkkjk ¼1½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] tgka bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu
dksbZ vijkèk] fdlh daiuh }kjk fd;k x;k gS vkSj ;g lkfcr gks tkrk gS fd og vijkèk
daiuh ds fdlh funs'kd] çcaèkd] lfpo ;k vU; vfèkdkjh dh lgefr ;k feyhHkxr ;k
muds Hkkx ij fdlh ykijokgh dh ekSukuqdwyrk ls fd;k x;k gS] rks ogka ,slk funs'kd]
çcaèkd] lfpo ;k vU; vfèkdkjh Hkh ml vijkèk ds nks"kh le>s tk,axs vkSj rn~uqlkj vius
fo#) dk;Zokgh fd, tkus vkSj nafMr fd, tkus ds nk;h gksaxsA
¼3½ tgka bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu naMuh; vijkèk fdlh Hkkxhnkjh QeZ ;k fdlh
lhfer nkf;Ro Hkkxhnkjh ;k fdlh fgUnw vfoHkä ifjokj ;k fdlh U;kl ;k drkZ ;k çcaèk
U;klh ds gksrs gq, fdlh djkèks; O;fDr }kjk fd;k tkrk gS] ml vijkèk dk nks"kh le>k
tk,xk vkSj rn~uqlkj vius fo#) dk;Zokgh ds fy, fd, tkus vkSj nafMr fd, tkus dk
nk;h gksxk vkSj ,sls O;fä;ksa ij mièkkjk ¼2½ ds micaèk vko';d ifjorZu lfgr ykxw gksaxsA

1466 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼4½ bl èkkjk esa nh xbZ dksbZ ckr fdlh ,sls O;fä dks bl vfèkfu;e esa micafèkr
fdlh naM ds fy, nk;h ugha cuk,xh] ;fn og lkfcr dj nsrk gS fd vijkèk mldh
tkudkjh ds fcuk fd;k x;k Fkk ;k mlus ,sls vijkèk dh jksdFkke ds fy, lE;d~ rRijrk
cjrh FkhA
O;k[;k%& O;k[;k%& O;k[;k%& èkkjk ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,] O;k[;k%& O;k[;k%& —
(i) " daiuh " ls vfHkizk; gS] dksbZ fuxfer fudk; vkSj blesa QeZ ;k O;f"V;ksa
dk vU; lewg Hkh 'kkfey gSa( vkSj
(ii) QeZ ds lacaèk esa] " funs'kd " ls vfHkizk; ml QeZ esa HkkxhnkjA
vijkèkksa dk 138- 138- 138- 138- 138- ¼1½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dksbZ vijkèk ;k rks vfHk;kstu ds lafLFkr djus ;k
ç'keuA mlds i'pkr~ vijkèk ds vfHk;qä O;fä }kjk] dsUæh; ljdkj ;k jkT; ljdkj] tSlh Hkh
fLFkfr gks] dks ,slh ç'keu jkf’k dk ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] Hkqxrku djus ij
vk;qDr }kjk iz’kfer fd;k tk,xkA
ijarq bl èkkjk dh dksbZ ckr fuEufyf[kr ij ykxw ugha gksxh&
¼d½ dksbZ O;fä tks èkkjk 132 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds [kaM ¼d½ ls ¼p½ esa fofufnZ"V
fdlh vijkèk ds lanHkZ esa ç'kfer gksus ds fy, vuqKkr fd;k x;k Fkk
vkSj [kaM ¼B½ esa fofufnZ"V vijkèk tks mä mièkkjk ds [kaM ¼d½ ls ¼p½
esa fofufnZ"V vijkèk ls lacafèkr gS(
¼[k½ dksbZ O;fDr tks ,d djksM+ #Ik, ls vf/kd ewY; dh iznk; ds laca/k esa
bl vfèkfu;e ds v/khu ;k fdlh jkT; eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e
;k dsUnzh; eky vkSj lsok dj vf/kfu;e] 2017 ¼ 2017 dk dsUnzh;
vf/kfu;e 12½ ;k ,dh—r eky vkSj lsok dj vfèkfu;e] 2017 ¼2017
dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 13½ ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu [kaM ¼d½ ls fHkUu fdlh
vijkèk ds lacaèk esa ,d ckj ç'keu ds fy, vuqKkr fd;k x;k gS (
¼x½ dksbZ O;fDr tks bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdlh vijkèk dks djus dk
vfHk;qä gS] tks rRle; ço`Ùk fdlh vU; fofèk ds vèkhu Hkh dksbZ vijkèk
gS(
¼?k½ dksbZ O;fä tks fdlh U;k;ky; }kjk bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdlh
vijkèk ds fy, nks"kfl) gks pqdk gS (
¼³½ dksbZ O;fDr tks èkkjk 132 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds [kaM ¼N½ ;k [kaM ¼¥½ ;k
[kaM ¼V½ esa fofufnZ"V dksbZ vijkèk dkfjr djus ds fy, vfHk;qDr gS(
vkSj
¼p½ O;fä;ksa ;k vijkèkksa dk dksbZ vU; oxZ tks fofufnZ"V fd;k tk,%

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1467
ijarq ;g vkSj fd bl èkkjk ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu vuqKkr dksbZ ç'keu fdlh vU;
fofèk ds vèkhu lafLFkr dkjZokbZ;ksa] ;fn dksbZ gksa] ij çHkko ugha Mkysxk%
ijarq ;g vkSj fd ,sls vijkèkksa esa dsoy varoZfyr dj] C;kt vkSj 'kkfLr dk Hkqxrku
djus ds i'pkr~ ç'keu vuqKkr gksxkA
¼2½ bl èkkjk ds vèkhu vijkèkksa ds ç'keu ds fy, jkf’k] ,slh gksxh tks U;wUkre
jkf’k tks nl gtkj #Ik, ls de u gksa ;k 'kkfey dj dk ipkl izfr’kr] tks Hkh vf/kd
gks] vkSj vf/kdre jkf’k] tks rhl gtkj #Ik, ls de ls de u gks ;k dj dk ,d lkS ipkl
izfr’kr] tks Hkh vf/kd gks] ds v/;/ku fofgr dh tk,A
¼3½ vk;qDr }kjk voèkkfjr ,slh ç'keu jkf’k ds Hkqxrku ij] vfHk;qä O;fä ds
fo#) bl vfèkfu;e esa] mlh vijkèk ds fy, vkxs dksbZ dk;Zokgh lafLFkr ugha gksaxh vkSj
fdlh vU; nkafMd dk;Zokfg;ka] ;fn mä vijkèk ds lacaèk esa igys ls gh lafLFkr gS] lekIr
gks tka,xhA

1468 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; XX
laØe.kdkyhu micaèk laØe.kdkyhu micaèk laØe.kdkyhu micaèk laØe.kdkyhu micaèk laØe.kdkyhu micaèk
fo|eku djnkrkvksa 139- 139- 139- 139- 139- ¼1½ fu;r fnu ls gh fo|eku fofèk;ksa ds vèkhu 
dk çotZuA [kkrk la[;k j[kus okys çR;sd O;fä dks ,slh 'krksZa ds vèkhu jgrs gq, vufUre vkèkkj ij
,sls ç:i esa vkSj ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] 
tk,xk] ftls tc rd mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu vfUre çek.ki= }kjk çfrLFkkfir ugha dj
fn;k tkrk] jídj.k ds fy, nk;h gksxk] ;fn bl çdkj fofgr 'krksZa dk vuqikyu ugha fd;k
tkrk gSA
¼2½ 
ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tks fofgr dh tk,a] çnku fd;k tk,xkA
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds vèkhu fdlh O;fä dks tkjh 
x;k ugha le>k tk,xk ;fn mDr 
vkosnu ds vuqlj.k esa fujLr gksrk gS fd og èkkjk 22 ;k èkkjk 24 ds vèkhu 
ds fy, nk;h ugha FkkA
buiqV dj izR;; ds 140- 140- 140- 140- 140- ¼1½ èkkjk 10 ds vèkhu dj dk Hkqxrku djus dk fodYi nsus okys fdlh O;fä ls
fy, laØe.kdkyhu fHkUu dksbZ 
O;oLFkk,aA fu;r fnu ls Bhd iwoZorÊ fnu dks lekIr gksus okyh vofèk ls lacafèkr fooj.kh esa] fofgr
dh tkus okyh jhfr esa ewY; ofèkZr dj dh jkf’k] ;fn dksbZ gks] ds çR;; dks vius bySDVªksfud
tek [kkrs esa vxzuhr djus dk gdnkj gksxk%
ijarq 
gksxk] vFkkZr~%&
(i) tgka izR;; dh mä jkf’k bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu buiqV dj çR;;
ds :i esa vuqKs; ugha gS( ;k
(ii) tgka og fu;r fnu ls Bhd iwoZorhZ Ng ekl dh vofèk ds fy, fo|eku
fofèk ds vèkhu visf{kr lHkh fooj.kh dks ugha nsrk gS( ;k
(iii) tgka izR;; dh mä jkf’k jkT; ljdkj }kjk vfèklwfpr ,slh okilh ds
nkos djus okyh foeqfä vfèklwpuk ds vèkhu csps x, eky ls
lEcfU/kr gS%
ijarq ;g vkSj fd mä çR;; dh mruh jkf’k] tks dsaæh; foØ; dj vfèkfu;e] 1956
¼1956 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 74½ dh èkkjk 3] èkkjk 5 dh mièkkjk ¼3½] èkkjk 6] èkkjk 6d ;k
èkkjk 8 dh mièkkjk ¼8½ ls lacafèkr fdlh ,sls nkos ds dkj.k gS] ftls dsaæh; foØ; dj
¼
ugha fd;k x;k gS] bySDVªkfud çR;; [kkrs esa tek fd, tkus dh ik= ugha gksxh%

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1469
ijarq ;g vkSj fd nwljs ijarqd esa fofufnZ"V çR;; dh lerqY; jkf’k dk ml le;
fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu çfrnk; fd;k tk,xk tc mä nkoksa dks dsaæh; foØ; dj ¼
vkSj vkorZ½ fu;e]1957 ds fu;e 12 esa fofgr jhfr esa fl) dj fn;k tkrk gSA
¼2½ èkkjk 10 ds vèkhu dj dk Hkqxrku djus dk fodYi nsus okys O;fDr ls fHkUu
dksbZ 
mlds }kjk fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu] fu;r fnu ls Bhd iwoZorÊ fnu dks lekIr gksus okyh
vofèk ds fy, izLrqr fooj.kh esa vxzuhr ugha gS] ,slh fofgr jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,]
vius bySDVªksfud çR;; [kkrs esa ysus fy, gdnkj gksxk%
ijarq 
mä izR;; dks tc rd çR;; djus ds fy, vuqKkr ugha gksxk tc rd bl vfèkfu;e
ds vèkhu Hkh buiqV dj çR;; ds :i esa vuqKs; ugha gSA
O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& bl èkkjk ds ç;kstu ds fy, O;k[;k& O;k[;k& " vuqiHkqä buiqV dj çR;;ß buiqV dj izR;;
dh dqy;ksx jkf’k] ftlds fy, O;fDr fo|eku fof/k ds v/khu iwathxr ekyksa ds
laca/k esa gdnkj Fkk] ls fo|eku fof/k ds v/khu djk/ks; O;fDr }kjk iwathxr ekyksa
ds laca/k igys ls yh xbZ buiqV dj izR;; dh jkf’k ?kVkus ds ckn 'ks"k cph
jkf’kA
¼3½ dksbZ 
nk;h ugha Fkk ;k tks fdlh fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu NwV çkIr eky ;k dj eqDr ekyksa] pkgs
fdlh Hkh uke ls Kkr gksa] ;k ,sls ekyksa] ftu ij jkT; esa muds foØ; ds çFke fcUnq ij
dj yxk;k x;k gS vkSj ftudh i'pkrorÊ foØ; fo|eku fof/k ds v/khu jkT; esa dj ds
v?;èkhu ugha gS] foØ; esa yxk Fkk] fdarq tks bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj dk nk;h gS ;k
tgka O;fDr ekyksa] ;fn dksbZ gksa] ds foØ; ds le; buiqV dj ds çR;; ds fy, gdnkj
Fkk] vius bySDVªksfud çR;; [kkrksa esa LV‚d esa èkkfjr buiqVksa vkSj LVkd esa èkkfjr vèkZ&fufeZr
;k fufeZr ekyksa ds laca/k esa fu;r fnu dks ewY; ofèkZr dj izR;; ds fy, fuEufyf[kr 'krksZa
ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] gdnkj gksxk] vFkkZRk~%&
(i) bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu djkèks; çnk; djus ds fy, ,sls buiqV ;k
eky mi;ksx fd, tkus gSa ;k mi;ksx fd, tkus ds fy, ds vk'kf;r
gSa(
(ii) mä 
dj çR;; ds fy, ik= gksxk (
(iii) mä 
tks ,sls buiqVksa ds lacaèk esa fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu dj ds Hkqxrku ds
lk{; :i gS] j[krk gS (
(iv) ,sls chtd ;k fofgr nLrkost fu;r fnu ls Bhd iwoZorÊ ckjg eklksa
ls iwoZrj tkjh ugha fd, x, Fks%

1470 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
ijarq tgka fdlh fofuekZrk ;k lsokvksa ds çnkrk ls fHkUu dksbZ 
buiqVksa ds lacaèk esa dj ds Hkqxrku dk lk{; ds :i esa dksbZ chtd ;k dksbZ vU; nLrkost
ugha j[krk gS rc ,slk 
jgrs gq,] tks fofgr dh tk,a] ftlds varxZr mDr djkèks; O;fä ,slh çR;; ds ykHk ewY;
dh deh ds }kjk çkIrdrkZ dks gLrkarfjr djs] ,slh jhfr esa] tks fofgr dh tk,] ,slh nj
ij çR;; vuqKkr gksxkA
¼4½ tgka dksbZ 
ds lkFk&lkFk NwV çkIr ekyksa ;k dj eqDr ekyksa]pkgs fdlh Hkh uke ls Kkr gksa] esa yxk
gqvk Fkk] fdarq tks bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj ds nk;h gSa] fuEu vuqlkj izR;; dks vius
bySDVªksfud çR;; [kkrs esa ysus dk gdnkj gksxk]&
¼d½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj mlds }kjk fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu
izLrqr dh xbZ fdlh fooj.kh esa vxzuhr ewY; ofèkZr dj ds izR;; dh
jkf’k] ;fn dksbZ gks( vkSj
¼[k½ mièkkjk ¼3½ ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj ,sls NwV çkIr ekyksa ;k dj eqDr
ekyksa]pkgs fdlh Hkh uke ls Kkr gksa]ds lacaèk esa fu;r fnu dks LVkd
esa j[ks x, buiqVksa vkSj vèkZ&fufeZr buiqVksa ;k fufeZr ekyksa ds lacaèk
esa ewY; ofèkZr dj ds izR;; dh jkf’k] ;fn dksbZ gksA
¼5½ dksbZ 
esa vius bySDVªksfud çR;; esa ewY; ofèkZr dj ds izR;; dh jkf’k] ;fn dksbZ gks] dks ysus
dk gdnkj gksxk] fdarq ftlds lacaèk esa dj dk Hkqxrku fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu çnkrk }kjk
fd;k x;k gS] bl 'krZ ds vèkhu jgrs gq, fd mlds chtd ;k fdlh vU; dj Hkqxrku lacaèkh
nLrkost dks] fu;r fnu ls rhl fnu dh vofèk ds Hkhrj ,sls O;fDr dh ys[kk iqLrdksa esa
vfHkfyf[kr fd;k x;k Fkk%
ijarq rhl fnu dh vofèk i;kZIr dkj.k nf'kZr djus ij vk;qDr }kjk vkSj rhl fnu
dh vufèkd vofèk ds fy, foLrkfjr dh tk ldrh gS %
ijarq ;g vkSj fd mä 
fofgr dh tk,] fooj.kh izLrqr djsxk fd bl mi/kkjk ds v/khu fy;k x;k gSA
¼6½ dksbZ 
Fkk ;k fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu Hkqxrku;ksX; dj ds cnys esa fu;r jkf’k dk Hkqxrku djrk
Fkk] fuEufyf[kr 'krksZa ds vèkhu jgrs gq, fu;r fnu dks vius LVkd esa j[ks x, buiqVksa
;k LVkd esa j[ks x, v/kZfufeZr ;k fufeZr ekyksa ds :Ik esa buiqVksa ds laca/k esa ewY;
of/kZr dj dk çR;; vius bySDVªksfud çR;; [kkrs esa ysus dk gdnkj gksxk] vFkkZr~%&
(i) bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu djkèks; iwfrZ djus ds fy, ,sls fuos'k ;k eky
dk mi;ksx fd;k tkrk gS ;k mi;ksx fd, tkus ds fy, vk’kf;r gSa(

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1471
(ii) mä 
(iii) mä 
dj çR;; ds fy, ik= gS (
(iv) buiqVksa ds lacaèk esa fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu dj ds Hkqxrku ds lk{; ds
:i esa chtd ;k vU; fofgr nLrkost mDr 
fuos'k esa gS( vkSj
(v) ,sls chtd vkSj vU; fofgr nLrkost fu;r frfFk ls Bhd iwoZ ckjg
ekl ls iwoZ tkjh ugha fd, x, FksA
¼7½ mièkkjk ¼3½] ¼4½ vkSj ¼6½ ds vèkhu çR;; dh jkf’k ,slh jhfr esa] laxf.kr dh
tk,xh] tks fofgr dh tk,A
141- 141- 141- 141- 141- ¼1½ fu;r fnu ls iwoZ fo|eku fofèk ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj tgka dksbZ buiqV] QqVdj dke ds
dkjckj ds ,d LFkku ij çkIr dksbZ buiqV dks ,sls :i esa izsf"kr fd;k x;k gS ;k vkxs vkSj lacaèk esa
çlaLdj.k]tkap] ejEer] iquuZqdwyu ;k fdlh vU; ç;kstu ds fy, fdlh deZdkj dks laØe.kdkyhu
micaèkA
vkaf'kd :i ls çlaLdj.k ds i'pkr~ çsf"kr fd;k x;k gS vkSj ,sls buiqVksa dks mä LFkku
ij fu;r fnu dks ;k mlds i'pkr~ okil Hkstk tkrk gS rks ml ij dksbZ dj Hkqxrku;ksX;
ugha gksxk] ;fn ,sls buiqVksa dks QqVdj dke ds iwjk gksus ds i'pkr~ ;k vU;Fkk fu;r fnu
ls Ng ekl ds Hkhrj mä LFkku ij okil Hkst fn;k tkrk gS%
ijUrq Ng ekl dh vofèk] i;kZIr dkj.k n'kkZ, tkus ij] nks ekl ls vufèkd dh
vfrfjä vofèk ds fy, vk;qDr }kjk c<+k;h tk ldrh gS%
ijUrq ;g vkSj fd ;fn ,slk buiqV bl mi/kkjk ds v/khu fofufnZ"V vofèk ds Hkhrj
okil ugha ykSVk;k tkrk gS] rks buiqV dj çR;; èkkjk 142 dh mièkkjk ¼8½ ds [k.M ¼d½
ds micUèkksa ds vuqlkj olwy fd;s tkus dk nk;h gksxkA
¼2½ tgka dksbZ v/kZ&fufeZr eky dkjckj ds fdlh LFkku ls fu;r fnu ls iwoZ
fo|eku fofèk ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj dfri; fofuekZ.kdkjh çfØ;k,¡ djus ds fy, fdUgha
vU; ifjljksa dks çsf"kr fd;k x;k Fkk vkSj ,slk eky ¼ftls] blds i'pkr~] bl mièkkjk esa
Þmä ekyß dgk x;k gS½ fu;r fnu dks ;k mlds i'pkr~ mä LFkku dks okfil ykSVk;k
tkrk gS] rks ml ij dksbZ dj Hkqxrku;ksX; ugha gksxk ;fn mä eky] fofuekZ.kdkjh çfØ;k,a
djus ;k vU;Fkk ds i'pkr~] fu;r fnu ls Ng ekl ds Hkhrj mä LFkku dks ykSVk fn;k
tkrk gS%
ijUrq i;kZIr dkj.k n'kkZ, tkus ij] Ng ekl dh vofèk dks nks ekl ls vufèkd
vofèk rd c<kus ds fy, vk;qDr }kjk foLrkj fd;k tk ldrk gS%
ijUrq ;g vkSj fd ;fn mä eky dks bl mièkkjk esa fofufnZ"V vofèk ds Hkhrj okil
ugha fd;k tkrk gS] rks buiqV dj izR;; èkkjk 142 dh mièkkjk ¼8½ ds [kaM ¼d½ ds micaèkksa
ds vuqlkj esa olwy djus ds fy, nk;h gksxk%

1472 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
ijUrq ;g vkSj fd ekyksa dks çsf"kr djus okyk O;fDr] fo|eku fofèk ds micaèkksa ds
vuqlkj bl mièkkjk esa fofufnZ"V vofèk ds Hkhrj fu;kZr ds fy, dj ds Hkqxrku ds fcuk
vFkok Hkkjr esa dj ds Hkqxrku ij çnk; djus ds ç;kstu ds fy, fdlh 
ds ifjljksa esa mDr ekyksa dks varfjr dj ldrk gSA
¼3½ tgka dkjckj ds LFkku ls ijh{k.k djk, tkus ;k vU; çfØ;k ds fy, dj ds
Hkqxrku ds fcuk fdUgha ekyksa ds fu;r frfFk ds iwoZ fo|eku fofèk ds micU/kksa ds vuqlkj

fu;r frfFk dks vFkok mlds i'pkr~ okil mDr ifjlj esa fd, tkrs gSa] dksbZ dj Hkqxrku
ugha gksxk ;fn mä eky] ijh{k.k ds vèkhu vFkok fdlh vU; çfØ;k ds ckn] fu;qä frfFk
ls Ng ekl ds Hkhrj mä LFkku ij okil fd, tkrs gSa%
ijUrq ;g vkSj fd i;kZIr dkj.k n'kkZ, tkus ij] Ng ekl dh vofèk dks] vk;qDr
}kjk nks ekl ls vufèkd vofèk ds fy, foLrkfjr fd;k tk ldrk gS %
ijUrq ;g vkSj fd ;fn mä eky bl mièkkjk esa fofufnZ"V vofèk ds Hkhrj okil
ugha fd, tkrs gSa] rks buiqV dj çR;; èkkjk 142 dh mièkkjk ¼8½ ds [kaM ¼d½ ds micaèkksa
ds vuqlkj olwy djus ds fy, nk;h gksxk%
ijUrq ;g vkSj fd ekyksa dks çsf"kr djus okyk O;fDr] fo|eku fofèk ds micaèkksa ds
vuqlkj bl mièkkjk esa fofufnZ"V vofèk ds Hkhrj fu;kZr ds fy, dj ds Hkqxrku ds fcuk
vFkok Hkkjr esa dj ds Hkqxrku ij mDr vU; ifjljksa ls mä ekyksa dks varfjr dj ldrk
gSA
¼4½ mièkkjk ¼1½] ¼2½ vkSj ¼3½ ds vèkhu dj] ml le; Hkqxrku ugha gksxk] ;fn
ekyksa dks izsf"kr djus okyk O;fDr vkSj dk;Z&deZdkj ,sls ç:i vkSj jhfr esa vkSj ,sls le;
ds Hkhrj] tks fofgr fd;k tk,] fu;r fnu dks mDr O;fDr vksj ls dk;Z&deZdkj }kjk
LVkd esa j[ks buiqV ;k ekyksa ds C;kSjs esa ?kks"k.kk djrk gSA
izdh.kZ 142- 142- 142- 142- 142- ¼1½ tgka fdUgha ekyksa ij dksbZ dj] ;fn dksbZ gks] mlds foØ; ds le; ij
laØe.kdkyhu fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu Hkqxrku fd;k x;k Fkk] fu;r fnu ls Ng ekl iwoZ ds le; dk
mica/k ugha gks] fu;r fnu ds i'pkr~ dkjckj ds LFkku ij okfil fd;k tkrk gS] rks 
O;fä fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu Hkqxrku fd, x, dj dks okil ysus dk ik= gksxk tgka ,slk
eky fu;r fnu ls Ng ekl dh vofèk ds Hkhrj dkjckj ds mä LFkku ds fy, fdlh

vfèkdkjh }kjk larks"ktud :i esa igpku ;ksX; gS%
ijUrq ;fn mä eky 
okilh çnk; ds :Ik esa le>h tk,xhA
¼2½ ¼d½ tgka fu;r fnu ls iwoZ dh xbZ fdlh lafonk ds vuqlj.k esa] fdlh eky
dh dher fu;r fnu dks vFkok blds i'pkr~ mlls iwoZ Åij dh vksj

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1473
iqujhf{kr dh tkrh gS] rks ,sls 
dk foØ; fd;k Fkk] ,slh iqujh{k.k dher rhl fnu dh vofèk ds Hkhrj]
,slh fof'kf"V;ksa tks fofgr dh tk,a] esa varfoZ"V vuqiwjd chtd vFkok
MsfcV uksV izkid dks tkjh fd;k tk;sxk rFkk bl vfèkfu;e ds iz;kstuksa
ds fy, ,sls vuqiwjd chtd vFkok MsfcV uksV dks bl vfèkfu;e ds
vèkhu dh xbZ ckgjh çnk; ds lacaèk esa tkjh fd;k le>k tk,xkA
¼[k½ tgka] fu;r fnu ls iwoZ dh xbZ fdlh lafonk ds vuqlj.k esa] fdlh eky
dh dher fu;r fnu dks vFkok blds i'pkr~ uhps dh vksj iqujhf{kr
dh tkrh gS] ,sls 
fd;k Fkk] ,slh iqujhf{kr dher rhl fnu dh vofèk ds Hkhrj ,slh
fof'kf"V;ksa tks fofgr dh tk,a] esa varfoZ"V ØsfMV uksV izkid dks tkjh
djsxk rFkk bl vfèkfu;e ds iz;kstuksa ds fy, ,sls ØsfMV uksV dks bl
vf/kfu;e ds vèkhu dh xbZ tkod çnk; ds lacaèk esa tkjh fd;k le>k
tk,xk%
ijUrq 
nkf;Ro dks de djus ds fy, vuqKkr fd;k tk,xk ;fn ØsfMV uksV dk izkid] dj nkf;Ro
ds ,sls de djus ds fy, rRLFkkuh mldk buiqV dj çR;; ?kV tkrk gSA
¼3½ fu;r fnu ds iwoZ] dks ;k i'pkr~ fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu Hkqxrku fd, x,
buiqV dj izR;;] dj] C;kt vFkok dksbZ vU; jkf’k ds çfrnk; gsrq fdlh O;fä }kjk nk;j
fd, x, çR;sd çfrnk; ds fy, nkok fo|eku fofèk ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj fu"ikfnr fd;k
tk;sxk vkSj mlds fy, çksnHkwr dh xbZ ikfj.kkfed fdlh jkf’k dk mDr fof/k ds
micU/kksa ds vuqlkj mls uxn Hkqxrku fd;k tk,xk%
ijUrq tgka buiqV dj çR;; dh jkf’k ds çfrnk; ds fy, dksbZ nkok iw.kZ:i vFkok
Hkkxr% vLohdkj fd;k tkrk gS] rks bl çdkj vLoh—r jkf’k O;ixr gks tk,xh%
ijUrq ;g vkSj fd dksbZ çfrnk; buiqV dj çR;; dh fdlh jkf’k ds fy, vuqKkr
ugha fd;k tk,xk tgka fu;r fnu dks mä jkf’k ds vfr'ks"k dks bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu
vxzsf"kr fd;k x;k gSA
¼4½ fu;r fnu ls iwoZ ;k i'pkr~ fu;kZr fd, x, ekyksa ds lacaèk esa fo|eku fofèk
ds vèkhu Hkqxrku fd, x, dj ds çfrnk; gsrq fu;r fnu ds i'pkr~ nk;j fd, x, çfrnk;
gsrq çR;sd nkok] fo|eku fofèk ds micU/kksa ds vuqlkj fu"iknu fd;k tk,xk%
ijUrq ;g vkSj fd tgka buiqV dj çR;; ds çfrnk; ds fy, dksbZ nkok iw.kZ:i
ls vFkok Hkkxr% vLohdkj fd;k tkrk gS] bl çdkj vLoh—r jkf’k O;ixr gks tk,xh%
ijUrq ;g vkSj fd dksbZ çfrnk; buiqV dj çR;; dh fdlh jkf’k ds fy, vuqKkr
ugha fd;k tk,xk tgka fu;r fnu dks mä jkf’k ds vfr'ks"k dks bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu
vxzsf"kr fd;k x;k gSA

1474 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼5½ bl vfèkfu;e esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds çfrdwy gksrs gq, Hkh] fu;r fnu ls
iwoZ myV fn, x, buiqV dj çR;; dh dksbZ jkf’k] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu buiqV dj]
çR;; ds :i esa Lohdk;Z ugha gksxhA
¼6½ ¼d½ buiqV dj çR;; ds laca/k esa lafLFkr çR;sd vihy] iqujh{k.k]
iqufoZyksdu vFkok lanHkZ fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu izR;sd dk;Zokgh pkgs
og fu;r fnu ds i'pkr~ vFkok iwoZ dh xbZ gks] dk fu"iknu fo|eku
fofèk ds micU/kksa ds vuqlkj fd;k tk;sxk] rFkk nkok djus okys ds fy,
Lohdkj dh xbZ ik;h tkus okyh çR;; dh fdlh jkf’k dk fo|eku fofèk
ds vèkhu ds micU/kksa ds vuqlkj mldks uxn çfrnk; fd;k tk,xk
vkSj jkf’k] tks vLohdkj dh xbZ gS] ;fn dksbZ gks] bl vfèkfu;e ds
vèkhu buiqV dj çR;; ds :i esa Lohdkj ugha dh tk,xh%
ijUrq buiqV dj çR;; dh fdlh jkf’k dk çfrnk; vuqKkr ugha
fd;k tk,xk tgka fu;r fnu dks mä jkf’k ds vfr'ks"k dks bl vfèkfu;e
ds vèkhu vxzsf"kr fd;k x;k gSA
¼[k½ buiqV dj çR;; ds olwyh ds lacaèk esa çR;sd lafLFkr vihy] iqujh{k.k]
iqufoZyksdu vFkok lUnHkZ fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu izR;sd dk;Zokgh pkgs
og fu;r fnu ds i'pkr~ vFkok iwoZ dh xbZ gks dk fu"iknu fo|eku
fofèk ds micaèkksa ds vuqlkj fd;k tk,xk rFkk ;fn fdlh çR;; dh jkf’k
,slh vihy] iqujh{k.k] iqufoZyksdu ;k lUnHkZ ds ifj.kke Lo:i esa olwyh;ksX;
gS] rks mls fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu tc rd olwy ugha dj yh xbZ gks]
bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj ds cdk;k ds :i esa olwy dh tk,xh vkSj
bl çdkj olwy dh xbZ jkf’k bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu buiqV dj
çR;; ds :i esa Lohdkj ugha dh tk,xhA
¼7½ ¼d½ fdlh vkmViqV dj ds lacaèk esa lafLFkr çR;sd vihy] iqujh{k.k] iqufoZyksdu
vFkok lUnHkZ dh fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu izR;sd dk;Zokgh pkgs og fu;r
fnu ds i'pkr~ vFkok iwoZ dh xbZ gks fu"iknu fo|eku fofèk ds micaèkksa
ds vuqlkj dh tk,xh rFkk ;fn dksbZ jkf’k ,slh vihy] iqujh{k.k]
iqufoZyksdu ;k lUnHkZ ds ifj.kke Lo:i olwyh;ksX; gS] rks mls fo|eku
fofèk ds vèkhu tc rd olwy ugha dj yh xbZ gks] bl vfèkfu;e ds
vèkhu dj ds fdlh cdk;k ds :i esa olwy dh tkus okyh vkSj bl
çdkj olwy dh xbZ jkf’k bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu buiqV dj çR;;
ds :i esa Lohdkj ugha dh tk,xhA
¼[k½ fdlh vkmViqV dj ds lacaèk esa lafLFkr çR;sd vihy] iqujh{k.k] iqufoZyksdu
vFkok lUnHkZ dh fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu izR;sd dk;Zokgh pkgs og fu;r
fnu ds i'pkr~ vFkok iwoZ dh xbZ gks dk fu"iknu fo|eku fofèk ds
micaèkksa ds vuqlkj dh tk,xh rFkk ;fn dksbZ jkf’k ,slh vihy] iqujh{k.k]

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1475
iqufoZyksdu ;k funsZ’k ds ifj.kke Lo:i dksbZ nkok—r jkf’k Lohdkj;ksX;
ikbZ tkrh gS rks fo|eku fofèk ds micU/kksa ds vuqlkj mls uxn çfrnk;
fd;k tk,xk vkSj vLohdkj dh xbZ jkf’k] ;fn dksbZ gks] bl vfèkfu;e
ds vèkhu buiqV dj çR;; ds :i esa Lohdkj ugha dh tk,xhA
¼8½ ¼d½ tgka fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu pkgs fu;r fnu ls iwoZ vFkok i'pkr~
lafLFkr fu/kkZj.k ;k U;k;fu.kZ;u dk;Zokfg;ksa ds vuqlj.k esa dj C;kt]
tqekZuk vFkok 'kkfLr dh dksbZ jkf’k O;fä ls olwy;ksX; gks xbZ gS] rks
mls fo|eku fof/k ds v/khu tc rd olwy ugha dj yh xbZ gks] bl
vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj ds cdk;k ds :i esa olwyh tk,xh rFkk bl
vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu bl izdkj olwy dh xbZ jkf'k buiqV dj çR;;
ds :i esa Lohdkj ugha dh tk,xhA
¼[k½ tgka fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu lafLFkr fdlh fuèkkZj.k vFkok U;k;fu.kZ;u
dk;Zokfg;ksa ds vuqlj.k esa] pkgs og fu;r fnu ls iwoZ] dks ;k ckn esa
dj] C;kt] tqekZuk vFkok 'kkfLr dh dksbZ jkf’k djk/ks; O;fä dks çfrnk;;ksX;
gks tkrh gS] rks mls mDr fof/k ds vèkhu udn çfrnk; dh tk,xh rFkk
vLoh—r jkf'k] ;fn dksbZ gks] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu buiqV dj çR;;
ds :i esa Lohdkj ugha dh tk,xhA
¼9½ ¼d½ tgka dksbZ fooj.kh] fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu izLrqr dh xbZ gks] fu;r
fnu ds i'pkr~ iqujhf{kr dh tkrh gS] vkSj ;fn] ,sls iqujh{k.k ds vuqlj.k
esa] dksbZ jkf’k olwyh;ksX; ik;h tkrh gS vFkok buiqV dj çR;; dh
dksbZ jkf’k vuqKs; ugha ik;h tkrh gS] rks mls] fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu
rc rd olwy ugha dh tk,xh tc rd bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj
ds cdk;k ds :i esa olwyh ugha dh tkrh gS vkSj bl izdkj olwy dh
xbZ jkf'k bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu buiqV dj çR;; ds :i esa Lohdk;Z
ugha gksxhA
¼[k½ tgka dksbZ fooj.kh] fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu izLrqr dh xbZ gks] fu;r
fnu ds i'pkr~ fdUrq fo|eku fofèk ds v/khu ,sls iqujh{k.k gsrq fufnZ"V
le; lhek esa iqujhf{kr dh tkrh gS] vkSj ;fn] ,sls iqujh{k.k ds vuqlj.k
esa] dksbZ jkf’k okilh ;ksX; ik;h tkrh gS vFkok buiqV dj çR;; fdlh
djk/ks; O;fDr dks vuqKs; ik;h tkrh gS] rks mls fo|eku fofèk ds vèkhu
mls udn esa okil dh tk,xh rFkk vLoh—r jk'kh] ;fn dksbZ gks] bl
vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu buiqV dj çR;; ds :i esa Lohdkj ugha dh tk,xhA
¼10½ bl vè;k; esa ;Fkk vU;Fkk micafèkr ds flok;] fu;r fnu ls iwoZ dh xbZ
fdlh lafonk ds vuqlj.k esa fu;r fnu dks ;k i'pkr~ eky ;k lsok vFkok nksuksa dk çnk;
bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu dj ds fy, nk;h gksxkA

1476 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼11½ ¼d½ èkkjk 12 esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu
eky ij dksbZ dj ml lhek rd ns; ugha gksxk ftl lhek rd og
gfj;k.kk ewY; ofèkZr dj vfèkfu;e] 2003 ¼2003 dk vf/kfu;e 6½ ds
vèkhu mä eky ij mn~x`ghr fd;k x;k FkkA
¼[k½ èkkjk 13 esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu
lsok ij dksbZ dj ml lhek rd ns; ugha gksxk ftl lhek rd og
foÙk vfèkfu;e] 1994 ¼1994 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 32½] ds vè;k; v
ds vèkhu mä lsokvksa ij mn~x`ghr fd;k x;k FkkA
¼x½ tgka gfj;k.kk ewY; ofèkZr dj vfèkfu;e] 2003 ¼2003 dk vf/kfu;e 6½
vkSj foÙk vfèkfu;e] 1994 ¼1994 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 32½] ds vè;k;
v ds vèkhu nksuks ds vèkhu fdlh iznk; ij dj dk Hkqxrku fd;k x;k
Fkk] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj mn~x`ghr fd;k tk,xk rFkk djk/ks;
O;fä fu;r fnu ds i'pkr~ fd, x, çnk;ksa dh lhek rd fo|eku
fofèk ds vèkhu ewY; ofèkZr dj ;k lsok dj dks çR;; ds :i esa ysus
dk gdnkj gksxk rFkk ,slk çR;; ,slh jhfr] tks fofgr dh tk,] esa
laxf.kr fd;k tk,xkA
¼12½ tgka dksbZ eky fu;r fnu ls iwoZ Ng ekl ls iwoZ vu~fèkd ds vuqeksnu ds
vkèkkj ij Hkstk tkrk gS] Øsrk }kjk vLoh—r fd;k tkrk gS ;k vuqeksfnr ugha fd;k tkrk
gS vkSj fu;r frfFk dks vFkok i'pkr~ Øsrk rFkk foØsrk dks okil fd;k tkrk gS] ml ij
dksbZ dj ns; ugha gksxk ;fn ,slk eky fu;r fnu ls Ng ekl dh vofèk ds Hkhrj okil
fd;k tkrk gS :
ijUrq i;kZIr dkj.k n'kkZ, tkus ij] Ng ekl dh mDr vofèk dks nks ekl ls vufèkd
vofèk rd c<kus ds fy, vk;qDr }kjk foLrkj fd;k tk,xk :
ijUrq ;g vkSj fd eky okil djus okys O;fä }kjk dj Hkqrku;ksX; gksxk ;fn ,slk
eky bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj ds fy, nk;h gksrk gS rFkk bl mièkkjk esa fofufnZ"V vofèk
ds Hkhrj okil fd;k tkrk gS :
ijUrq ;g vkSj fd dj fdlh ,sls O;fä ds }kjk Hkqxrku fd;k tk,xk ftlus vuqeksnu
ds vkèkkj ij eky dks Hkstk gS ;fn ,slk eky bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dj ds fy, nk;h
gS] rFkk bl mièkkjk esa fofufnZ"V vofèk ds Hkhrj okil fd;k ugha tkrk gSA
¼13½ tgka çnk;drkZ us eky dk dksbZ foØ; fd;k gS ftlds lacaèk esa gfj;k.kk ewY;
ofèkZr dj vf/kfu;e] 2003 ¼2003 dk vf/kfu;e 6½ ds vèkhu lzksr ij dj dh dVkSrh djuk
visf{kr Fkk vkSj fu;r fnu ls iwoZ chtd Hkh tkjh fd;k x;k gS] èkkjk 51 ds vèkhu lzksr
ij dj mDr /kkjk ds v/khu dVkSrhdrkZ ds }kjk dh dVkSrh ugha dh tk,xh tgka mä
çnk;drkZ dks Hkqxrku fu;r frfFk dks ;k blds i'pkr~ fd;k tkrk gSA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1477
¼14½ tgka çèkku ls lacaf/kr dksbZ eky ;k iwath eky fu;r fnu dks vfHkdrkZ ds
ifjljksa esa j[kk gS] vfHkdrkZ fuEufyf[kr 'krksZa dks iwjk fd, tkus ds vèkhu jgrs gq, ,sls
ekyksa ;k iwath eky ij Hkqxrku dj dk çR;; ysus ds fy, gdnkj gksxk%
(i) vfHkdrkZ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu ,d 
(ii) çèkku vkSj vfHkdrkZ] nksuksa gh fu;r fnu ls Bhd iwoZorÊ frfFk dks ,sls
vfHkdrkZ ds ikl j[ks ekyksa ;k iwath ekyksa ds LV‚d ds C;kSjksa dh ?kks"k.kk
,sls ç:i vkSj jhfr esa rFkk ,sls le; ds Hkhrj djrs gSa] tks bl
fufeÙk fofgr fd;k tk,(
(iii) ,sls ekyksa ;k iwath ekyksa ds fy, chtd fu;r fnu ls Bhd iwoZ ckjg
eklksa dh vofèk ls iwoZ tkjh ugha fd, x, Fks( vkSj
(iv) çèkku us ;k rks ,sls]&
¼d½ ekyksa( ;k
¼[k½ iwath ekyksa]
ds lacaèk esa ;k rks buiqV dj izR;; dks okil dj fn;k gS ;k mldk Qk;nk ugha fy;k
gS ;k ,sls çR;; dk Qk;nk ys ysus ds i'pkr~ mDr izR;;] mlds }kjk fy, x, Qk;ns
dh lhek rd okil ykSVk fn;k gSA
O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& bl vè;k; ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, " iwath eky " vfHkO;fDr dk ogh vFkZ
gksxk]tks mldk gfj;k.kk ewY; ofèkZr dj vfèkfu;e 2003 ¼2003 dk
vf/kfu;e 6½ esa fn;k x;k gSA

1478 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; vè;k; XXI
çdh.kZ çdh.kZ çdh.kZ çdh.kZ çdh.kZ
NqViqV dk;Z dh 143- 143- 143- 143- 143- ¼1½ dksbZ 
çfØ;kA fd;k x;k gS½] lwpuk ds vèkhu vkSj ,slh 'krksZa ds vèkhu] tks fofgr dh tk,] NqViqV dk;Z
ds fy, NqViqV deZdkj dks dj ds Hkqxrku ds fcuk dkssbZ buiqV vFkok iwath eky Hkst ldrk
gS] rFkk
¼d½ NqViqV dk;Z vU;Fkk lss iwjk gks tkus ds i'pkr~ buiqV ;k lkapk vkSj
:ink] tqxrksa vkSj fQDlpjksa ;k vkStkjksa ls fHkUu iwathxr eky ds
Hkqxrku ds fcuk] mlds fdlh Hkh dkjckj ds LFkku ls muds Hksts tkus
ds Øe'k% ,d o"kZ vkSj rhu o"kZ ds Hkhrj] dj ds Hkqxrku ds fcuk okil
yk,xk(
¼[k½ NqViqV dk;Z ;k vU;Fkk ds iwjk gks tkus ds i'pkr~ buiqV ;k lkapk vkSj
:ink] tqxrksa vkSj fQDlpjksa ls fHkUu iwath xr eky ij dj Hkqxrku
ij] Hkkjr ds Hkhrj vFkok fu;kZr ds fy, dj Hkqxrku vFkok fcuk Hkqxrku]
tSlh fLFkfr gks] dj ds Hkqxrku ij NqViqV deZdkj ds dkjckj ds mlds
fdlh LFkku dks muds Hksts tkus ds Øe'k% ,d o"kZ vkSj rhu o"kZ ds
Hkhrj] çnk; djsxk%
ijUrq iz/kku bl [kaM ds fucaèkuksa ds vuqlj.k esa NqViqV deZdkj
ds dkjckj ds LFkku ls eky dk iznk; rc rd ugha djsxk tc rd
mä çèkku }kjk ml LFkku dkjckj ds vfrfjä LFkku ds :i esa ?kks"k.kk
ugha djrk gS]
(i) tgka NqViqV deZdkj èkkjk 25 ds vèkhu 
(ii) tgka çèkku ,sls eky ds çnk; esa yxk gqvk gS tSlk fd vk;qDr
}kjk vfèklwfpr fd;k x;k gSA
¼2½ buiqV vFkok iwathxr eky ds fy, ys[kkvksa dk mfpr è;ku j[kus dk mÙkjnkf;Ro
çèkku dk gksxkA
¼3½ tgka NqViqV dk;Z gsrq Hkstk x;k buiqV mièkkjk ¼1½ ds [kaM ¼d½ ds micU/kksa
ds vuqlj.k esa NqViqV dk;ksZa ls vU;Fkk dk;Z ds iwjk gksus ds i'pkr~ çèkku }kjk okil ugha
fy;k tkrk gS vFkok mlds ckgj Hksts tkus ds ,d o"kZ dh vofèk ds Hkhrj mièkkjk ¼1½ ds
[kaM ¼[k½ ds micU/kksa ds vuqlj.k esa NqViqV deZdkj ds dkjckj ds LFkku ls çnk; ugha
fd;k tkrk gS] rks ;g le>k tk,xk fd ,sls iwatheky deZdkj ds fy, çèkku }kjk çnk;
fd;k x;k Fkk ml fnu tc mä buiqV ckgj Hksts x, FksA
¼4½ tgka NqViqV dk;Z gsrq Hksts x, lkapk vkSj :ink] tqxrksa vkSj fQDlpjksa ;k
vkStkjksa ls fHkUu iwath eky mièkkjk ¼1½ ds [kaM ¼d½ ds micU/kksa ds vuqlj.k esa çèkku }kjk

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1479
okil ugha fy;k tkrk gS vFkok mlds ckgj Hksts tkus dh rhu o"kZ dh vofèk ds Hkhrj
mièkkjk ¼1½ ds [kaM ¼[k½ ds micU/kksa ds vuqlj.k esa NqViqV deZdkj ds dkjckj ds LFkku
ls çnk; ugha fd, tkrs gaS] rks ;g le>k tk,xk fd ,sls iwath eky NqViqV deZdkj ds
fy, çèkku }kjk çnk; fd;k x;k Fkk ml fnu tc mä iwath eky ckgj Hksts x, FksA
¼5½ mièkkjk ¼1½ vkSj mièkkjk ¼2½ esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] NqViqV dk;Z
ds nkSjku fdlh vif'k"V vkSj mRikfnr LØsi ij dj ds Hkqxrku ij dkjckj ds mlds LFkku
ls lhèks NqViqV deZdkj ds }kjk çnk; fd;k tk ldrk gS] ;fn ,slk NqViqV deZdkj

tk,xkA
O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& NqViqV dk;Z ds mís';ksa gsrq] buiqV esa çèkku ;k fdlh NqViqV deZdkj
}kjk buiqV ij yk, x, fdlh mik; ;k izfØ;k ls mn~Hkwr gksus okys
eè;orÊ eky lfEefyr gSA
144- 144- 144- 144- 144- tgka dksbZ nLrkost —
dfri; ekeyksa esa
(i) bl vfèkfu;e vFkok rRle; ykxw fdlh vU; fofèk ds vèkhu fdlh nLrkostksa ds fy,
O;fä }kjk çLrqr fd;k tkrk gS( vFkok mièkkj.kkA
(ii) bl vfèkfu;e vFkok rRle; ykxw fdlh vU; fofèk ds vèkhu fdlh
O;fä dh vfHkj{kk vFkok fu;a=.k ls vfHkxzg.k esa fd;k x;k gS( vFkok
(iii) bl vfèkfu;e vFkok rRle; ykxw fdlh vU; fofèk ds vèkhu fdUgha
dk;Zokfg;ksa ds Øe esa Hkkjr ds ckgj fdlh LFkku ls çkIr fd;k x;k
gS]
vkSj ,slk nLrkost mlds vFkok fdlh vU; O;fä ftlus mlls la;qä gksus
dk ç;kl fd;k gks] ds fo#) vfHk;kstu lk{; U;k;ky;&
¼d½ ,sls O;fä }kjk tc rd çfrdwy lkfcr ugha dj fn;k tkrk gS] mièkkj.kk
dh tk,xhA
(i) ,sls nLrkost dh varZoLrq dh lR;rk(
(ii) fd gLrk{kj vkSj ,sls nLrkost dk çR;sd vU; Hkkx ftldk rkRi;Z
fdlh fof'k"V O;fä ds }kjk gLrfyf[kr gks vFkok ftls U;k;ky;
us mfpr dkj.kksa ds fy, gLrk{kj djk;k gks vFkok fdlh
fo'ks"k O;fä ds }kjk gLrfyf[kr fd;k x;k gks vkSj ,sls fu"iknu
;k vfHkçekf.kr nLrkost dh n'kk esa] fd ;g ,sls O;fDr }kjk
fu"ikfnr ;k vuqizekf.kr fd;k x;k gS ftlds }kjk ;g bl izdkj
fu"ikfnr ;k vfHkizek.ku fd;k tkuk rkRif;Zr gS(
¼[k½ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh fd ;g lE;d LVkafir ugha gS] lk{; esa
nLrkost Lohdkj djsxk] ;fn ,slk nLrkost lk{; esa vU;Fkk xzkg~;
gSA

1480 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
ekbZØks fQYeksa] 145- 145- 145- 145- 145- ¼1½ rRle; fdlh vU; fofèk esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh&
nLrkostksa dh ¼d½ fdlh ekbZØksfQYe esa yxk gqvk fp= ;k fp=ksa ds iquZmRiknu ;k nLrkostksa
çfr—fr çfr;ksa vkSj dh ekbZØksfQYe ¼pkgs og cM+h gks vFkok ugha½( ;k
dEI;wVj fçaV vkmV
dks nLrkostksa ds ¼[k½ fdlh nLrkost dh çfr—fr çfr( ;k
:i esa vkSj lk{; ¼x½ fdlh nLrkost esa vUrfoZ"V dksbZ fooj.k vkSj ftlesa fdlh dEI;wVj
ds :i esa xzkárkA }kjk tfur dksbZ eqfær lkexzh Hkh 'kkfey gS] ,slh 'krksZa ds vèkhu] tks
fofgr dh tk,( ;k
¼?k½ fdlh ;qfä ;k lapkj ekè;e esa bySDVªksfud :i ls HkaMkfjr dksbZ lwpuk]
ftlesa ,slh lwpuk dh gkMZçfr;ka Hkh 'kkfey gS]
dks bl vfèkfu;e vkSj blds vèkhu cuk;s x;s fu;eksa ds ç;kstu ds fy, ,d nLrkost
ds :i esa le>k tk,xk vkSj mlds vèkhu fdlh dk;Zokgh esa] fdlh vkSj lcwr ;k ewy
nLrkost ds çLrqrhdj.k ds fcuk ,sls xzká gksxk] tSls ewy nLrkost dh dksbZ fo"k;&oLrq
ds lk{; ds :i esa ;k mlesa dfFkr dksbZ rF; ;k lh/ks lk{; ds :i esa xzká gksA
¼2½ bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds vèkhu cukus x;s fu;eksa ds vèkhu fdlh dk;Zokgh
esa] bl èkkjk ds vkèkkj ij lk{; esa dFku djus dh vis{kk dh x;h gS] dksbZ çek.ki=]&
¼d½ dFku vUrZfo"V nLrkost dks ifjyf{kr djrk gS vkSj ml jhfr dks
o.kZu djrk gS ftlesa bls fy;k x;k gS(
¼[k½ ml nLrkost dks cukus esa 'kkfey fdlh ;qfä dh ,slh fof'kf"V;ksa dks
nsrk gS tSlk ;g çnf'kZr djus ds ç;kstu ds fy, leqfpr gks fd
nLrkost dks fdlh dEI;wVj }kjk cuk;k x;k Fkk]
çek.ki= esa dfFkr fdlh ekeysa dk lk{; gksxk vkSj bl mièkkjk ls ç;kstuksa gsrq ;g bldk
dFku djus okys O;fä dh iwjh tkudkjh vkSj fo’okl ls dgk x;k dFku gksus ds ekeysa
esa i;kZIr gksxkA
lkekU; iksVZyA 146- 146- 146- 146- 146- ljdkj] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij 
çLrqrhdj.k] ,dh—r dj dh lax.kuk vkSj lekèkku] bySDVªksfud os fcy vkSj ,sls vU;
d`R;ksa vkSj ç;kstuksa dks tkjh j[kus ds fy,] tks fofgr fd, tk,a] izlqfo/kk ds fy, lkekU;
eky vkSj lsok dj bySDVªksfud iksVZy dks vfèklwfpr dj ldsxhA
fu;kZr le>k 147- 147- 147- 147- 147- ljdkj] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] tgka çnk; fd;k x;k eky Hkkjr ugha NksM+rk
tkukA gS vkSj ,slh çnk; ds fy, Hkqxrku Hkkjrh; #i, ;k laifjorZuh; fons'kh eqæk esa çkIr gks
x;k gS] ;fn ,slk eky Hkkjr esa fofufeZr fd;k x;k gS] dfri; eky ds çnk; dks fu;kZr
ds :i esa le>k tkuk vfèklwfpr dj ldrh gSA
dfri; çfØ;kvksa 148- 148- 148- 148- 148- ljdkj] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] vkSj ,slh 'krksZa vkSj lqj{kk ds v?;/khu] tks fofgr
ds fy, fo'ks"k fd, tk,] 
i)frA okyh fo'ks"k i)fr dks vfèklwfpr dj ldrh gS] ftlesa 
dk çLrqrhdj.k] dj dk Hkqxrku vkSj ,sls O;fä;ksa dk ç'kklu Hkh 'kkfey gSA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1481
149- 149- 149- 149- 149- ¼1½ çR;sd 
vfHkys[k ij vkèkkfjr ljdkj }kjk eky vkSj lsok dj vuqikyu jsfVax x.kuk leuqnsf'kr dj vuqikyu
dj ldsxhA jsafVxA
¼2½ eky vkSj lsok dj vuqikyu jsfVax x.kuk dks ,sls ekudksa ds vkèkkj ij] tks
fofgr fd, tk,a] voèkkfjr fd;k tk ldrk gSA
¼3½ eky vkSj lsok dj vuqikyu jsfVax x.kuk dks voèkkfjr vUrjkyksa ij v|ru
fd;k tk,xk vkSj 
dh tk, ifCyd Mksesu esa Hkh j[kh tk ldsxhA
150- 150- 150- 150- 150- ¼1½ dksbZ O;fä& lwpuk fooj.kh
çLrqr djus dh
¼d½ dksbZ djk/ks; O;fä gksus ds dkj.k( ;k ckè;rkA
¼[k½ dksbZ LFkkuh; çkfèkdkjh ;k vU; lkoZtfud fudk; ;k lg;kstu gksus
ds dkj.k( ;k
¼x½ ewY; of/kZr dj ;k foØ; dj ;k jkT; mRikn dj ds laxzg.k ds fy,
mÙkjnk;h jkT; ljdkj dk dksbZ çkfèkdkjh ;k mRikn&'kqYd ;k lhek
'kqYd ds laxzg.k ds fy, mÙkjnk;h dsUæ ljdkj dk dksbZ çkfèkdkjh
gksus ds dkj.k( ;k
¼?k½ vk; dj vfèkfu;e] 1961] ¼1961 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 43½ ds micaèkksa
ds vèkhu fu;qä dksbZ vk;dj çkfèkdkjh gksus ds dkj.k ( ;k
¼³½ Hkkjrh; fjtoZ cSad vfèkfu;e] 1934 ¼1934 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 2½ dh
èkkjk 45d ds [kaM ¼d½ ds vFkZ ds varxZr dksbZ cSfdax daiuh gksus ds
dkj.k( ;k
¼p½ dksbZ jkT; fo|qr cksMZ ;k fo|qr vfèkfu;e] 2003 ¼2003 dk dsUnzh;
vf/kfu;e 36½ ds v/khu dksbZ fo|qr forj.k ;k ikjs"k.k vuqKfIrèkkjd
;k dsUæhs; ljdkj ;k jkT; ljdkj }kjk ,sls —R;ksa ls U;Lr dksbZ
bdkbZ gksus ds dkj.k( ;k
¼N½ 
èkkjk 6 ds vèkhu fu;qä jftLVªkj ;k mi jftLVªkj gksus ds dkj.k( ;k
¼t½ daiuh vfèkfu;e] 2013 ¼2013 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 18½ ds vFkkZUrkxZr
dksbZ jftLVªkj gksus ds dkj.k( ;k
¼>½ eksVj ;ku vfèkfu;e] 1988 ¼1988 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 59½ ds vèkhu
eksVj ;ku dk 
gksus ds dkj.k( ;k

1482 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼¥½ Hkwfe vtZu] iquokZlu vkSj iquO;ZoLFkkiu esa mfpr çfrdj vkSj ikjnf'kZrk
vfèkdkj vfèkfu;e] 2013 ¼2013 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 30½] dh /kkjk 3
ds [kaM ¼Xk½ esa fufnZ"V dksbZ lekgÙkkZ gksus ds dkj.k( ;k
¼V½ çfrHkwfr lafonk ¼fofu;e½ vfèkfu;e] 1956 ¼1956 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e
42½] dh èkkjk 2 ds [kaM ¼p½ esa fufnZ"V ekU;rkçkIr LVkd ,Dlpsat gksus
ds dkj.k( ;k
¼B½ fu{ksikxkj vfèkfu;e] 1996 ¼1996 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 22½] dh èkkjk
2 dh mièkkjk ¼1½ ds [kaM ¼M+½ esa fufnZ"V fu{ksikxkj gksus ds dkj.k( ;k
¼M½ Hkkjrh; fjtoZ cSad vfèkfu;e] 1934 ¼1934 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 2½ dh
èkkjk 3 ds vèkhu ;Fkk xfBr Hkkjrh; fjtoZ cSad dk dksbZ vfèkdkjh gksus
ds dkj.k( ;k
¼<½ daiuh vfèkfu;e] 2013 ¼2013 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 18½] ds vèkhu
dksbZ jftLVªMZ daiuh] eky vkSj lsok dj usVoØ gksus ds dkj.k( ;k
¼.k½ èkkjk 25 dh mièkkjk ¼9½ ds vèkhu fdlh O;fDr ftldks çnku dh xbZ
fof'k"V igpku la[;k iznÙk O;fDr gksus ds dkj.k( ;k
¼r½ ljdkj }kjk] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] ;Fkk fofufnZ"V dksbZ vU; O;fDr]
tks rRle; ykxw fdlh fofèk ds vèkhu 
vkofèkd fooj.kh ;k dj Hkqxrku vkSj eky ;k lsok ;k nksuksa ds laO;ogkj ds vU; C;kSjs dks
varfoZ"V djus okys nLrkost ;k fdlh cSad [kkrk ;k fo|qr [kir ls lacafèkr laO;ogkj ;k
eky ;k laifÙk dk Ø;&foØ; ;k vknku çnku ds laO;ogkj ;k fdlh laifÙk ;k vfèkdkj
;k fgr ds vfHkys[k ds vuqj{k.k ds fy, mÙkjnk;h gS ,slh vofèk] ,sls le; ds Hkhrj] ,sls
ç:i vkSj jhfr esa] vkSj ,sls çkfèkdkjh ;k vfHkdj.k ds le{k tks fofgr dh tk,a] ,d lwpuk
fooj.kh nkf[ky djsxkA
¼2½ tgka vk;qDr] ;k bl fufeRr mldh vksj ls mlds }kjk çkfèk—r dksbZ vfèkdkjh]
lwpuk fooj.kh esa nh xbZ lwpuk dks =qfViw.kZ le>rk gS] ,slh lwpuk fooj.kh Hkjus okys
O;fDr dks ,slh =qfV dh lwpuk nsxk vkSj mldks ,sls lwpuk dh frfFk ls rhl fnu dh vofèk
ds Hkhrj] ;k mldh vksj ls fd, x, vkosnu ij ,slh vxzlkfjr vofèk ds Hkhrj] =qfV ds
ifj'kksèku djus dk ,d volj nsxk] vkSj ;fn =qfV dk ifj'kksèku mä rhl fnu dh vofèk
;k vxzklkfjr vofèk ds Hkhrj ugha fd;k x;k g]S rks bl vfèkfu;e ds fdlh vU; micaèkksa
esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr ds gksrs gq, Hkh] ,slh lwpuk fooj.kh Hkjh gqbZ ugha le>h tk,xh vkSj
bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèk ykxw gksaxsA
¼3½ tgka dksbZ O;fDr ftlls lwpuk fooj.kh fn;k tkuk visf{kr gS mls og mièkkjk
¼1½ ;k mièkkjk ¼2½ esa fofufnZ"V le; ds Hkhrj ugha nsrk gS] rks mä çkfèkdkjh mls uksfVl
ifjnku dh frfFk ls uCcs fnuksa dh vufèkd vofèk ds Hkhrj ,slh lwpuk fooj.kh nsus dh vis{kk
dk uksfVl ns ldrk gS vkSj ,slk O;fDr lwpuk fooj.kh nsxkA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1483
151- 151- 151- 151- 151- ¼1½ vk;qDr ;fn ;g le>rk gS fd ,slk fd;k tkuk vko';d gS] vfèklwpuk }kjk] vkadM+s laxzg.k
;k bl vfèkfu;e ls lacaf/kr fdlh ekeys ds flyflys esa vkadM+ksa dk laxzg.k djus dks djus dh 'kfäA
funs'k ns ldrk gSA
¼2½ ,slh vf/klwpuk tkjh djus ij vk;qDr ;k mlds }kjk çkfèk—r dksbZ O;fDr]
lacafèkr O;fDr ls ;Fkk fofgr] ,sls çk:i vkSj jhfr esa mu vkadM+ksa ds laxzg.k ls lacafèkr
fdlh ekeys ds lacaèk esa] ,slh lwpuk ;k fooj.kh nsus ds fy, vis{kk dj ldrk gSA
152- 152- 152- 152- 152- ¼1½ èkkjk 150 ;k èkkjk 151 ds ç;kstuksa ds fy, fn, x, fdlh ekeys ds laca/k lwpuk ds çdVu
esa ,dy fooj.kh ;k mlds Hkkx dh lwpuk] lEcfU/kr O;fDr ;k mlds çkfèk—r çfrfufèk ij otZuA
dh fyf[kr lgefr ds fcuk ,slh jhfr esa çdkf'kr dh tk,xh ,slh fof’kf"V;k¡ fdlh [kkl
O;fDRk dh igpku ds izfr fufnZ"V u gks vkSj ,slh lwpuk bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdUgha
dk;Zokfg;ksa ds ç;kstu ds fy, mi;ksx esa ugha ykbZ tk,xhA
¼2½ bl vfèkfu;e ;k rRle; ykxw fdlh vU; vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu vfHk;kstu
ds ç;kstu dks NksM+dj] dksbZ O;fDr tks bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu vkadM+s laxzg.k esa ;k bl
vfèkfu;e ds ç;kstu ds fy, ladyu ;k mlds daI;wVjhdj.k esa ugha yxk gqvk gS] dks èkkjk
151 esa fufnZ"V dksbZ lwpuk ;k dksbZ ,dy fooj.kh dks ns[kus ;k ml rd mlds igq¡pus
dh vuqefr gksxhA
¼3½ bl èkkjk dh dksbZ Hkh ckr] djk/ks; O;fDr;ksa ds fdlh oxZ ;k laO;ogkj ds
oxZ ls lacafèkr fdlh lwpuk ds çdk'ku ij ykxw ugha gksxh] ;fn vk;qDr dh jk; esa] ,slh
lwpuk dk çdk'ku yksdfgr esa okaNuh; gSA
153- 153- 153- 153- 153- lgk;d vk;qDr dh inoh ls uhps dk dksbZ vfèkdkjh] ekeys dh ç—fr vkSj tfVyrk fdlh fo'ks"kK ls
rFkk jktLo ds fgr ds lacaèk dks è;ku esa j[krs gq,] mlds le{k laoh{kk] tkap] vUos"k.k lgk;rk çkIr
;k fdlh vU; dk;Zokgh ds fdlh Hkh Lrj ij fdlh Hkh fo'ks"kK ls lgk;rk çkIr dj ldrk djukA
gSA
154- 154- 154- 154- 154- vk;qDr ;k mlds }kjk çkfèk—r dksbZ vfèkdkjh] tgka og ,slk djuk vko';d le>s] uewuksa dks çkIr
fdlh djkèks; O;fDr ds dCts ls eky ds uewus ys ldrk gS] vkSj bl izdkj fy, x, fdlh djus dh 'kfDrA
Hkh uewus dh jlhn miyCèk djk,xkA
155- 155- 155- 155- 155- tgka dksbZ O;fDr ;g nkok djrk gS fd og bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu buiqV dj lcwr dk HkkjA
çR;; ds fy, ik= gS] ,sls nkos dks lkfcr djus dk Hkkj ,sls O;fDr ij gksxkA
156- 156- 156- 156- 156- bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu —R;ksa dk fuoZgu djus okys lHkh O;fDr;ksa dks Hkkjrh; naM O;fDr;ksa dks yksd
lafgrk ¼1860 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 45½ dh èkkjk 21 ds vFkZ ds Hkhrj yksd lsod ds :Ik lsod le>k tkukA
esa le>k tk,xkA
157- 157- 157- 157- 157- ¼1½ bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds vèkhu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu ln~Hkko iwoZd dh bl vfèkfu;e ds
xbZ ;k fd;s tkus dks vk’kf;r fdlh d`R; ds fy, vihy vfèkdj.k ds vè;{k] jkT; vè;{k] vèkhu dh xbZ
dkjZokbZ dk laj{k.kA lnL;ksa] vfèkdkfj;ksa ;k vU; deZpkfj;ksa ;k mä vihy vfèkdj.k }kjk çkfèk—r dksbZ vU;
O;fDr ds fo#) dksbZ okn] vfHk;kstu ;k vU; fofèkd dk;Zokfg;ka ugha dh tk,axhA

1484 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
¼2½ bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds vèkhu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu ln~Hkko iwoZd dh
xbZ ;k fd, tkus dks vk'kf;r dksbZ d`R; ds fy, bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fu;qä ;k
çkfèk—r fdlh vf/kdkjh ds fo#) dksbZ okn] vfHk;kstu ;k vU;vk fofèkd dk;Zokfg;ka ugha
dh tk,axhA
yksd lsod }kjk 158- 158- 158- 158- 158- ¼1½ bl vf/kfu;e] ds vuqlkj fd; x,] fdlh dFku] nh xbZ fooj.kh ;k izLrqr
lwpuk dk çdV fd, x, ys[kksa ;k nLrkostksa esa] ;k bl vf/kfu;e fdlh nakfMd U;k;ky; ds le{k dk;Zokgh
fd;k tkukA ls fHkUu ds v/khu fdUgha dk;Zokfg;ksa ds vuqØe esa fn, x, lk{; ds fdlh vfHkys[k esa ;k
mDr vf/kfu;e ds v/khu fdUgha dk;Zokfg;ksa ds fdlh vfHkys[k esa fn, x, lHkh C;kSjs]
mi/kkjk ¼3½ esa ;Fkk micaf/kr ds flok;] izdV ugha fd, tk,axsA
¼2½ Hkkjrh; lk{; vf/kfu;e] 1872 ¼1872 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 1½ esa fdlh ckr
ds gksrs gq, Hkh] mi/kkkjk ¼3½ esa ;Fkk micaf/kr ds flok;] dksbZ U;k;ky; bl vf/kfu;e ds
v/khu fu;qDr ;k izkf/kd`r fdlh vf/kdkjh ls mi/kkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V fdUgha fof’kf"V;ksa dks
izLrqr djus ;k mldh ckor mlds le{k lk{; nsus dh vis{kk ugha djsxkA
¼3½ bl èkkjk dh dksbZ ckr]&
¼d½ Hkkjrh; naM lafgrk 1860 ¼1860 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 45½ ;k Hkz"Vkpkj
fuokj.k vfèkfu;e] 1988 ¼1988 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 49½ ;k rRle;
ço`Ùk vU; fofèk ds vèkhu fdlh vfHk;kstu ds ç;kstu ds fy, fdlh
fooj.k] fooj.kh] ys[kksa] nLrkostksa] lk{;] 'kiFki= ;k vfHklk{;~ ds
laca/k esa( ;k
¼[k½ bl vfèkfu;e ds mís';ksa dks dk;kZfUor djus ds ç;kstu ds fy,] dsUæh;
ljdkj ;k jkT; ljdkj dks ;k bl vfèkfu;e ds dk;kZUo;u dk;Zjr
dksbZ O;fDr( ;k
¼x½ ,slh fof’kf"V;ksa ftuds izdVu dk dkj.k bl vf/kfu;e ds v/khu
fof/k iw.kZ }kjk fdlh uksfVl ds rkehy ;k fdlh ekax dh olwyh ds fy,
fdlh izfØ;k ds lacaèk esa( ;k
¼?k½ fdlh Hkh okn ;k dk;Zokfg;ksa esa flfoy U;k;ky; ftlesa bl vfèkfu;e
ds vèkhu ljdkj ;k dksbZ çkfèkdkjh ,d i{kdkj gS tks bl vfèkfu;e
;k rRle; ço`Ùk fdUgha vU; fofèk ds vèkhu fdlh dk;Zokfg;ksa ls mRiUu
okys fdlh ekeys ls lacafèkr gS] mlds vèkhu Hkh fdUgha 'kfDr;ksa dk
ç;ksx djus ds fy, ,sls fdlh çkfèkdkjh dks çkfèk—r djrk gS] ds lacaèk
esa( ;k
¼³½ bl vfèkfu;e ds v/khu vfèkjksfir dj izkfIr ;k dj ds izfrnk; dh
ys[kkijh{kk ds ç;kstu ds fy, fu;qDr fdlh vfèkdkjh ds C;kSjs( ;k
¼p½ ,sls fof’kf"V;ksa ds rRle; izo`r fdlh fof/k ds v/khu tk¡p vf/kdkjh
ds :Ik esa fu;qDr ;k izkf/kd`r fdlh vf/kdkjh dks bl vf/kfu;e ds

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1485
v/khu fu;qDr ;k izkf/kd`r fdlh vf/kdkjh ds vkpj.k dh tk¡p gsrq
fdUgha iz;kstuksa ds fy, lacaf/kr tgka ,slh fof’kf"V;ka gSa( ;k
¼N½ dsUnzh; ;k fdlh jkT; ljdkj ds fdlh vf/kdkjh ds fdUgha ,sls fooj.kksa]
tks fdlh dj ;k 'kqYd ds vf/kjksi.k ;k olwyh gsrq leFkZ cukus ds
iz;kstu ds fy, tks vko’;d gks( ;k
¼t½ ,slh fof’kf"V;k¡ ftuds izdVu dk dkj.k rRle; ço`Ùk vU; fdlh
fofèk ds vèkhu dksbZ yksd lsod ;k dksbZ vU; dkuwuh çkfèkdkjh }kjk
mldh ;k mldh 'kfDr;ksa ds fofèkiw.kZ iz;ksx }kjk( ;k
¼>½ fdlh is'kkjr vfèkoäk] dj O;olk;h] is'kkjr ykxr ys[kkdkj] is'kkjr
pkVZMZ vdkmaVsaV] is'kkjr daiuh lfpo ds fo#) bl vfèkfu;e ds
vèkhu fdUgha dk;Zokfg;ksa ds lEcUèk esa nqjkpj.k ds vfHk;ksx dh fdlh
tk¡p gsrq fofèk O;olk;] ykxr ys[kkdkj] pkVZMZ vdkmaVsaV ;k daiuh
lfpo] tSlh Hkh fLFkfr gks] ds is'kk esa yxs gq, lnL;ksa ds fo#) dkjZokbZ
djus gsrq l'kDr fdlh çkfèkdkjh dks lqlaxr fdlh rF; dk çdVu(
;k
¼¥½ fu;qDr fdlh vfHkdj.k dks Lopkfyr ç.kkyh ds MkVk çfof"V lapkyu
ds ç;kstu ds fy, ;k mUur djus ;k fdlh Lopkfyr ç.kkyh ds
vuqj{k.k ds ç;kstu ds fy, tgka ,sls vfHkdj.k mijksDr ç;kstuksa ds
fy, dks NksM+ ,slh fof'kf"V;ksa ds ç;ksx ;k çdV ugha djus dh lafonk
vkc) gS( ;k
¼V½ rRle; ço`Ùk vU; fdlh fofèk ds ç;kstu ds fy, ;Fkk vko';d ljdkj
ds fdlh vfèkdkjh dh dksbZ ,slh fof’kf"V;ka( vkSj
¼B½ izdk'ku ds fy, djkèks; O;fä;ksa ds fdlh oxZ ;k laO;ogkjksa ds fdlh
oxZ dh ,slh lwpuk dk izdk'ku] ;fn vk;qDr dh jk; esa] yksd fgr
esa okaNuh; gS] ls lacaf/kr dksbZ lwpukA
159- 159- 159- 159- 159- ¼1½ ;fn vk;qDr ;k bl laca/k esa mlds }kjk çkfèk—r dksbZ vU; vfèkdkjh dh jk; dfri; ekeyksa esa
gS fd fdlh O;fDr dk uke vkSj ,sls O;fDr ds lacaèk esa bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdUgha O;fDr;ksa ds fo"k; esa
lwpuk dk çdk'kuA
dk;Zokfg;ksa ;k vfHk;kstu ls lacafèkr fdUgha vU; fof'kf"V;ksa dk çdk'ku yksdfgr esa vko';d
;k lehphu gS] rks og] ,slh jhfr esa ,sls uke vkSj fof'kf"V;ksa dk çdk'ku] tks og Bhd
le>s] dj ldrk gSA
¼2½ bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu dksbZ 'kkfLr vfèkjksfir djus ds lacaèk esa bl èkkjk ds
vèkhu dksbZ çdk'ku ugha fd;k tk,xk tc rd vihy çkfèkdkjh dks dksbZ vihy çLrqr djus
ds fy, èkkjk 107 ds vèkhu le; dk volku dksbZ vihy izLrqr fd, fcuk gks tkrk gS ;k
dksbZ vihy] ;fn çLrqr dh tkrh gS] dk fuiVkjk ugha gks tkrk gSA
O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& ;FkkfLFkfr] QeZ] daiuh ;k vU; O;fDr;ksa dk laxe] QeZ ds Hkkxhnkjksa
ds uke] daiuh ds funs'kdksa] çcaèkdh; vfHkdrkZvksa] lfpoksa vkSj dks"kkè;{kksa

1486 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
;k çcaèkdksa dk uke ;k lnL;ksa dk laxe dh n'kk esa] lnL;ksa dk uke
çdkf'kr fd;k tk ldrk gS] ;fn vk;qDr ;k mldh vksj ls mlds }kjk
çkfèk—r fdlh vU; vfèkdkjh dh jk; esa ekeys dh ifjfLFkfr esa ,slk
djuk U;k;ksfpr gksA
dfri; fcUnqvksa 160- 160- 160- 160- 160- ¼1½ bl vfèkfu;e ds fdUgha micaèkksa ds vuqlj.k esa fd, x,] izfrxzg.k fd, x,]
ij fuèkkZj.k cuk, x,] tkjh fd;k x;k] vkjaHk fd;k x;k ;k fd, tkus ds fy, rkRif;Zir dksbZ fuèkkZj.k
dk;Zokfg;ka] vkfn iqufuèkkZj.k] U;k;fu.kZ;u] iqufoZyksdu] iqujh{k.k] vihy] ifj'kksèku] uksfVl] leu ;k dh
dk vfofèkekU; u xbZ vU; dk;Zokfg;ka mlesa fdlh xyrh] =qfV ;k yksi gksus ds dkj.k vfofèkekU; ugha gksxk
fd;k tkukA
;k le>k tk,xk] ;fn ,sls fuèkkZj.k] iqufuèkkZj.k] U;k;fu.kZ;u] iqufoZyksdu] iqujh{k.k] vihy]
ifj'kksèku] uksfVl] leu ;k vU; dk;Zokfg;ka bl vfèkfu;e ;k vU; fo|eku fdlh fofèk
ds lkj ,oa izHkko dh n`f"V ls vk'k;] ç;kstu vkSj vis{kk ds vuq:i gksA
¼2½ fdlh uksfVl] vkns'k ;k lapkj dh rkehy] ç'uxr ugha fd;k tk,xk] ;fn
;FkkfLFkfr] uksfVl] vkns'k ;k lapkj ds vuqlj.k esa ml O;fDr }kjk igys gh dk;Zokgh dh
x;h gS ftlds uke mls tkjh fd;k x;k gS] ;k tgka ,sls rkehy dk;Zokgh ;k iwoZ ds dk;Zokgh
ds izkjaHk djus] pkyw djus ;k iw.kZ djus esa ç'uxr ugha fd;k x;k gSA
vfHkys[k ij 161- 161- 161- 161- 161- èkkjk 160 ds micaèkksa ij çfrdwy çHkko Mkys fcuk vkSj bl vfèkfu;e ds fdlh vU;
çdV =qfV micaèkksa esa nh xbZ fdlh ckr fdlh ds gksrs gq, Hkh] dksbZ çkfèkdkjh] ftlus dksbZ fofu’p;
dk ifj'kksèkuA ;k vkns'k ;k ikfjr fd;k gS] uksfVl ;k çek.ki= ;k vU; nLrkost] tkjh fd;k gS] ;FkkfLFkfr]
,sls fofu'Pk; ;k vkns'k ;k uksfVl ;k çek.ki= ;k fdlh nLrkost esa] tkjh gksus dh frfFk
ls rhu ekl dh vofèk ds nkSjku ,slh fdlh =qfV dk ifj'kksèku dj ldrk gS tks ,sls
fofu'p; ;k vkns'k ;k uksfVl ;k çek.ki= ;k vU; nLrkost esa =qfV vfHkys[k dks ns[kus
ls gh çdV gksrh gS] vkSj tks mldh Loçsj.kk ls ;k bl vfèkfu;e ;k dsaæh; eky vkSj lsok
dj vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fu;qä fdlh vfèkdkjh ;k çHkkfor O;fä }kjk mlds laKku esa ykbZ
tkrh gS%
ijarq ,slk ifj'kksèku ,sls fofu'p; ;k vkns'k ;k uksfVl ;k çek.ki= ;k fdlh vU;
nLrkost ds tkjh gksus dh frfFk ls Ng ekl dh vofèk ds i'pkr~ ugha fd;k tk,xk%
ijarq ;g vkSj fd mä Ng ekl dh vofèk nq?kZVuko'k fdlh pwd ;k yksi ls mn~Hkwr
ek= fyfidh; ;k vadxf.krh; =qfV ds ifj'kksèku ds ekeys esa ykxw ugha gksxh] la'kksèku ds
Lo:i esa 'kq)rk dh xbZ gks%
ijarq ;g vkSj fd tgka dksbZ O;fDr ,sls ifj'kksèku ls çfrdwy :i ls çHkkfor gksrk
gS] ogka ifj'kksèku djus okys çkfèkdkjh }kjk uSlfxZd U;k; ds fl)kar dk ikyu fd;k
tk,xkA
flfoy U;k;ky; 162- 162- 162- 162- 162- èkkjk 117 vkSj 118 esa ;Fkk micafèkr ds flok;] dksbZ flfoy U;kk;ky; dks bl
dh vfèkdkfjrk vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fd;s x, ;k rkRif;Zr fdlh —R; ls mnHkwr fdlh ç'u ls fuiVus ;k
ij otZuA fofuf'p; djus dh vfèkdkfjrk ugha gksxhA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1487
163- 163- 163- 163- 163- tgka fdlh vkns'k ;k nLrkost dh çfr vkosnu ij fdlh O;fDr dks miyCèk djkbZ Qhl mnxzg.kA
tkrh gS] ogka ,slh Qhl] tks fofgr dh tk,] dk Hkqxrku fd;k tk,xkA
164- 164- 164- 164- 164- ¼1½ ljdkj] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kkas ij] vfèklwpuk }kjk bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèkksa Lkjdkj dks
dks dk;kZfUor djus ds fy, fu;e cuk ldrh gSA fu;e cukus
dh 'kfDrA
¼2½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ds micaèkksa ds lkekU;rk ij çfrdwy çHkko Mkys fcuk] ljdkj]
,sls lHkh ;k fdlh ekeys ds fy, fu;e cuk ldrh gS ftUgsa bl vfèkfu;e }kjk fofgr
fd;k tkuk gS ;k fd;k tk ldrk gS ;k ftlds laca/k esa mica/k fu;eksa }kjk fd, tk ldrs
gSaA
¼3½ bl èkkjk }kjk çnÙk fu;e cukus dh 'kfä esa mUgsa ;k muesa ls fdUgh dks bl
vfèkfu;e ds micaèkksa dh izo`Rr gksus dh frfFk ds i'pkr~ fdlh frfFk esa Hkwry{kh çHkko nsus
dh 'kfDRk lfEefyr gksxhA
¼4½ mièkkjk ¼1½ ;k mièkkjk ¼2½ ds vèkhu cuk, x, fdlh fu;e }kjk mlds
mYya?ku ij nl gtkj ls vufèkd 'kkfLr yxk, tkus dk micaèk fd;k tk ldrk gSA
165- 165- 165- 165- 165- ljdkj] bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèkksa dks dk;kZfUor djus ds fy, bl vfèkfu;e rFkk fofu;e cukus
blds vèkhu cuk, x, fu;eksa ls laxr fofu;e] vfèklwpuk }kjk cuk ldsxhA dh 'kfDrA
166- 166- 166- 166- 166- bl vf/kfu;e ds v/khu ljdkj }kjk cuk, x;k izR;sd fu;e] ljdkj }kjk cuk;k fu;eksa] fofu;eksa
x;k izR;sd fofu;e rFkk tkjh dh xbZ izR;sd vf/klwpuk] cuk;s ;k tkjh fd, tkus ds vkSj vfèklwpukvksa
Ik’pkr~ ;Fkk’kh?kz jkT; fo/kkueaMy ds lnu ds le{k] tc og l= esa gks] dqy rhl fnu dk j[kk tkukA
dh vof/k ds fy,] tks ,d l= eas vFkok nks ;k vf/kd vkuqØfed l=ksa esa iwjh gks ldrh
gS] j[kk tk,xh vkSj ;fn ml l= ;k mu vkuqØfed l=ksa ds Bhd ckn ds l= ds volku
ls iwoZ jkT; fo/kkue.My fu;e ;k fofu;e ;k vf/klwpuk tSlh Hkh fLFfr gks] dksbZ ifjorZu
djus ds fy, lger gks tkrk gS ;k jkT; fo/kkue.My lger gks tkrk gS fd og fu;e
;k fofu;e ;k vf/klwpuk ugha cukbZ ;k ugha tkjh dh tkuh pkfg] rks] ;FkkfLFkfr ,slk fu;e
;k fofu;e ;k ,slh vf/klwpuk] rRi’pkr] ;FkkfLFkfr] dsoy ,sls ifjofrZr :Ik esa izHkkoh
gksxh ;k mldk dksbZ izHkko ugha gksxk] rFkkfi] ml fu;e ;k fofu;e ;k vf/klwpuk ds ,sls
ifjofrZr ;k fu"izHkko ds gksus ls mlds v/khu igys dh xbZ fdlh ckr dh fof/kekU;rk ij
izfrdwy izHkko ugha iMsxkA
167- 167- 167- 167- 167- vk;qDr] vfèklwpuk }kjk ,slh 'krksZa] ;fn dksbZ gksas] ds vèkhu jgrs gq,] tks vfèklwpuk 'kfä;ksa dk çR;k;kstuA
esa fofufnZ"V dh tk,a] bl vfèkfu;e ds vèkhu fdlh çkfèkdkjh ;k vfèkdkjh }kjk ç;ksx dh
tkus okyh dksbZ 'kfä] ,slh vfèklwpuk esa fofufnZ"V fdlh 
ç;ksx djus dk funs'k dj ldsxkA
168- 168- 168- 168- 168- vk;qDr] ;fn bl vfèkfu;e ds dk;kZUo;u esa le:irk ds ç;kstu ds fy, ,slk vuqns'kksa ;k
djuk vko';d ;k lehphu le>s] jkT; dj vfèkdkfj;ksa dks mlds }kjk mfpr le>k tkus funs'kksa dks tkjh
djus dh 'kfäA

1488 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
okyk ,slk vkns'k] vuqns'k ;k funs'k tkjh dj ldrk gS vkSj bl vfèkfu;e ds dk;kZUo;u
esa fu;ksftr lHkh ,sls vfèkdkjh vkSj lHkh vU; O;fDr ,sls vkns'kksa] vuqns'kksa ;k funs'kksa dk
vuqlj.k vkSj ikyu djsaxsA
dfri; ekeyksa 169- 169- 169- 169- 169- ¼1½ bl vfèkfu;e ;k blds vèkhu cuk, x, fu;eksa ds vèkhu fdlh fofu'p;]
esa uksfVl rkehy vkns'k] leu] uksfVl ;k vU; lalwpuk dks fuEufyf[kr fdUgha i)fr;ksa }kjk rkehy fd;k
djukA tk,xk ] vFkkZr~%&
¼d½ çsf"krh ;k djkèks; O;fDr dks ;k mlds çcaèkd ;k çkfèk—r çfrfufèk ;k
,slk dksbZ vfèkoDrk ;k dj O;olk;h ftlds ikl djkèks; O;fDr dh
vksj ls dk;Zokfg;ksa esa is'k gksus dk çkfèkdkj gS ;k dkjckj ds lacaèk esa
mlds }kjk fu;fer :i ls fu;ksftr O;fä dks ;k djkèks; O;fDrRo
ds lkFk jg jgs ifjokj ds fdlh oL;d O;fDRk lnL; dks lhèks nsdj
;k lqiqnZ djds ;k lans'kokgd] ftlds varxZr dqfj;j Hkh gS] ds }kjk(
;k
¼[k½ ftlds fy, ;g vk'kf;r gS O;fDr ;k mlds çkfèk—r çfrfufèk]
;fn dksbZ gks] dks mlds dkjckj ;k fuokl ds vafre Kkr LFkku] ij
vfHkLoh—fr 
¼x½ 
irs ij lalwpuk Hkstus ds }kjk( ;k
¼?k½ lkekU; iksVZy ij miyCèk djokus ds }kjk( ;k
¼³½ ifj{ks= esa djkèks; O;fDRk ;k og O;fDr ftls ;g tkjh fd;k x;k gS]
blls igys jgrk Fkk] dkjckj djrk Fkk ;k vfHkykHk ds fy, oS;fDrd
rkSj ij dk;Z djrk Fkk] esa çpkfyr lekpkji= esa çdk'ku }kjk( ;k
¼p½ ;fn mi;Zqä dksbZ <ax O;ogk;Z ugha gS] rks mlds fuokl ;k dkjckj ds
vafre Kkr LFkku ij fdlh lgt –'; txg fpidkus ds }kjk vkSj
;fn fdlh dkj.ko'k ,slh i)fr Hkh O;ogkfjd ugha gksrh gS] rks ,slk
fofu'p; ;k vkns'k ;k leu ;k uksfVl tkjh djus okys vfèkdkjh ;k
çkfèkdj.k ds dk;kZy; ds uksfVl cksMZ ij fpidkus ds }kjkA
¼2½ çR;sd fofu'p;] vkns'k] leu] uksfVl ;k fdlh lalwpuk dh mlh frfFk dks
rkehy gqbZ le>h tk,xh ftl ij bls lqiqnZ fd;k x;k gS ;k çdkf'kr fd;k x;k gS ;k
mièkkjk ¼1½ esa micafèkr jhfr esa ,d çfr ogka fpidkbZ xbZA
¼3½ tc ,sls fofu'p;] vkns'k] leu] uksfVl ;k fdlh lalwpuk dks 
Mkd ;k LihM iksLV }kjk Hkstk x;k gS] rks ,slh Mkd ds igqapus esa lkekU;r% yxus okyh
vofèk ds lekfIr ij çsf"krh }kjk çkIr fd;k x;k le>k tk,xk tc rd çfrdwy lkfcr
ugha gksrk gSA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1489
170- 170- 170- 170- 170- bl vfèkfu;e ds micaèkksa ds vèkhu dj dh jkf’k] C;kt] 'kkfLr] tqekZuk ;k dksbZ vU; dj dk iw.kkZadu
Hkqxrku ;ksX; /ku&jkf’k vkSj çfrnk; dh /ku jkf’k ;k dksbZ vU; ns; jkf’k fudVre #i, bR;kfnA
ds fy, iw.kkZafdr dh tk,xh vkSj] bl ç;kstu ds fy, tgka ,slh jkf’k ftlesa #i, dk ,d
Hkkx iSls ds :i esa gS] rc ;fn ,slk Hkkx ipkl iSls ;k mlls vfèkd gS] rks bls ,d #i,
rd c<+k;k tk,xk vkSj ;fn ,slk Hkkx ipkl iSls ls de gS rks bl ij è;k u ugha fn;k
tk,xkA
171- 171- 171- 171- 171- ¼1½ fdlh eky ;k lsokvksa ds iznk; ij dj dh nj esa fdlh deh ;k buiqV dj equkQk[kksjh fujksèkh
çR;; ds Qk;ns dks dherksa esa lEes; deh ds rkSj ij çkIrdrkZ dks ns fn;k tk,xkA mik;A
¼2½ dsUæh; ljdkj] ;g ijh{k.k djus ds fy, fd D;k fdlh 
}kjk mUeqä buiqV dj çR;; ;k dj nj esa deh ls okLro esa ifj.kker% ml }kjk eky
vkSj lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dh dherksaa esa lEes; deh gqbZ gS] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] vfèklwpuk
}kjk çkfèkdj.k dk xBu ;k ml le; ykxw fdlh fofèk ds xfBr fdlh fo|eku çkfèkdj.k
dks l'kDr dj ldrh gSA
¼3½ mièkkjk ¼2½ esa fufnZ"V çkfèkdj.k ,slh 'kfä;ksa dk ç;ksx vkSj ,sls —R;ksa dk
fuoZgu djsxk tks fofgr fd, Tkk,aA
172- 172- 172- 172- 172- ¼1½ ;fn bl vfèkfu;e ds fdUgha micaèkksa dks çHkkoh djus esa dksbZ dfBukbZ mRiUu dfBukb;ksa dks
gksrh gS] rks ljdkj] ifj"kn~ dh flQkfj'kksa ij] 'kkldh; jkti= esa çdkf'kr dksbZ lkèkkj.k nwj djukA
;k dksbZ fo'ks"k vkns'k }kjk bl vf/kfu;e ;k blds vèkhu cuk, x, fu;eksa ;k fofu;eksa
ls vu~vlaxr ,sls micaèk cuk ldrh gS] tks mDr dfBukbZ dks nwj djus ds iz;kstu ds
fy, vko';d ;k lehphu gks%
ijarq ,slk dksbZ Hkh vkns'k bl vfèkfu;e ds çkjaHk dh frfFk ls rhu o"kZ dh
vofèk dh lekfIr ds i'pkr~ ugha fd;k tk,xkA
¼2½ bl èkkjk ds vèkhu fd;k x;k çR;sd vkns'k] blds cuk, tkus dss i'pkr~]
;Fkk'kh?kz] jkT; foèkku&eaMy ds le{k j[kk tk,xkA
173- 173- 173- 173- 173- bl vfèkfu;e esa tSlk vU;Fkk micaf/kr gS mls NksM+dj vkSj bl vf/kfu;e ds 1994 ds gfj;k.kk
vf/kfu;e 16 dh
izkjEHk dh frfFk ls gfj;k.kk uxj fuxe vfèkfu;e] 1994 ¼1994 dk 16½ dh èkkjk 88 dh
dfri; /kkjkvksa dk
mièkkjk ¼1½ [k.M ¼ i ½ rFkk /kkjk 121 dk yksi dj fn;k tk,xkA
yksiA
174- 174- 174- 174- 174- ¼1½ bl vfèkfu;e esa tSlk vU;Fkk micaf/kr gS mls NksMdj] bl vf/kfu;e ds fujlu vkSj O;ko`fRrA
izkjEHk dh frfFk ls]
(i) lafoèkku dh lkroha vuqlwph dh jkT; lwph dh çfof"V 54 esa lfEefyr
ekyksa ds laca/kksa esa] ds flok;] gfj;k.kk ewY; ofèkZr dj vfèkfu;e] 2003
¼2003 dk 6½(
(ii) gfj;k.kk LFkkuh; {ks=ksa esa eky ds ços'k ij dj vfèkfu;e] 2008
¼2008 dk 8½(

1490 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
(iii) iapk;r ;k uxjikfydk ;k izknsf’kd ifj"kn~ ;k ftyk ifj"kn~ }kjk mn~x`fgr
vkSj lax`fgr lhek ds flok; iatkc euksjatu dj 'kqYd vfèkfu;e] 1955
¼1955 dk iatkc vf/kfu;e 16½] gfj;k.kk jkT;kFkZ(
(iv) gfj;k.kk lq[k&lkèku dj vfèkfu;e 2007 ¼2007 dk 23½]
¼ftUgsa] blesa] blds ckn fujflr vf/kfu;e fufnZ"V fd, x, gSa½ blds }kjk]
fujflr fd, tkrs gSaA
¼2½ mi&èkkjk ¼1½ ;k èkkjk 173 esa mfYyf[kr lhek rd] mä vfèkfu;eksa dk
fujlu vkSj èkkjk 173 esa fofufnZ"V vfèkfu;eksa dk la'kksèku ¼ftUgsa] blesa] blds i'pkr~]
ß,slk la'kksèkuß ;k ßla'kksfèkr vfèkfu;eß] tSlh Hkh fLFkfr gks] ds #Ik fufnZ"V fd;k x;k gS&
¼d½ ,sls la’kks/ku ;k fujlu ds le; fdlh Hkh ykxw ;k fo|eku dk dksbZ
Hkh ckr ykxw ugha gksxh( ;k
¼[k½ la’ksf/kr vf/kfu;eksa ds lapkyu esa ;k fujflr vfèkfu;eksa vkSj vkns'kksa
;k mlds vèkhu lE;d~ :i ls dh xbZ ;k Hkqäh xbZ dksbZ Hkh ckr
çHkkfor ughagksxh( ;k
¼x½ la’kksf/kr vf/kfu;eksa ;k fujflr vfèkfu;eksa ds v/khu fdlh vfèkdkj]
fo'ks"kkfèkdkj] ckè;rk] ;k vftZr çksnHkwr ;k mixr nkf;Ro ;k ,sls
fujflr ;k la’kksf/kr vf/kfu;eksa ds v/khu vkns’k izHkkfor ugha gksaxs %
ijarq fdlh vfèklwpuk ds }kjk fofuos'k ij çksRlksgu ds :i esa
vuqnÙr dksbZ dj NwV] fo'ks"kkfèkdkj ds :i esa tkjh ugha jgsxh] ;fn
fu;r fnu dks ;k mlds i'pkr~ mä vfèklwpuk fo[kafMr gks tkrh gS(
;k
¼?k½ fdlh dj] vfèkHkkj] 'kkfLr] C;kt tks ns; gSa ;k ns; gks ldrs gSa ;k dksbZ
leigj.k ;k la’kksf/kr vf/kfu;eksa ;k fujflr vfèkfu;eksa ds micaèkksa ds
fo:) fd, x, fdlh vijkèk ds lacaèk esa mixr ;k fn, x, naM dks
çHkkfor ugha djsxk (
¼³½ fdlh vUos"k.k] tkap] lR;kiu ¼laoh{kk vkSj ys[kk ijh{kk lfgr½] fuèkkZj.k
dk;Zokgh] U;k;fu.kZ;u vkSj vU; dksbZ fofèkd dk;Zokgh ;k cdk;ksa dh
olwyh ;k ;FkkiwokZsDr fdlh ,sls dj] vfèkHkkj] 'kkfLr] tqekZuk] C;kt]
vfèkdkj] fo'ks"kkfèkdkj] ckè;rk] nkf;Rok] leigj.k ;k naM ds lacaèk esa
mipkj vkSj fdlh ,sls vUos"k.k] tkap] lR;kiu ¼laoh{kk vkSj ys[kk ijh{kk
lfgr½] fuèkkZj.k dk;Zokgh] U;k;fu.kZ; vkSj vU; fofèkd dk;Zokfg;ksa ;k
cdk;ksa dh olwyh ;k mipkj dks lafLFkr] tkjh ;k çofrZr dj ldrk
gS vkSj fdlh ,sls dj] vfèkHkkj] 'kkfLr] tqekZuk] C;kt] leigj.k ;k naM
mn~x`ghr ;k vfèkjksfir dj ldrk gS ekuks ;s vfèkfu;e bl çdkj
la’kksf/kr ;k fujflr ugha fd, x, gSa dks izHkkfor ugha djsxh(

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1491
¼p½ fdUgha dk;Zokfg;ka] ftlds varxZr ftudk lacaèk fdlh vihy] iqufoZyksdu]
leh{kk ;k lUnHkZ ftUgsa fu;r fnu ls iwoZ ;k ml fnu ij ;k mlds
i'pkr~ mDr la’kksf/kr ;k fujflr vfèkfu;eksa ds vèkhu lafLFkr fd;k
x;k gS vkSj ,slh dk;Zokfg;ka mDr la’kksf/kr vf/kfu;eksa ;k fujflr
vfèkfu;eksa ds vèkhu tkjh jgsaxh ekuks ;g vfèkfu;e ço`Ùk ugha gqvk gks
vkSj mDr vfèkfu;eksa dks l’kksaf/kr ;k fujflr ugha fd;k x;k gks dks
çHkkfor ugha djsxkA
¼3½ èkkjk 173 vkSj mi&èkkjk ¼1½ esa fufnZ"V fof'k"V ekeyksa ds mYys[k dks fujlu
ds çHkko ds lanHkZ esa iatkc lkèkkj.k [k.M vfèkfu;e] 1898 ¼1898 dk iatkc vf/kfu;e 1½
dh /kkjk 4 ds O;kid :i ls ykxw gksus ij çfrdwy çHkko Mkyus ;k çHkkfor djus ds fy,
ugha ekuk tk;sxkA

1492 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
vuqlwph vuqlwph vuqlwph vuqlwph vuqlwph I
¼ nsf[k, /kkjk 7 ½
çfrQy ds fcuk fd;s x, fØ;kdykiksa dks Hkh iznk; ds :i esa le>k tk,xk
1- dkjckj vkfLr;ksa dk LFkkkbZ varj.k ;k fuiVku tgka ,slh vkfLr;ksa ij buiqV
dj çR;; dk miHkksx fd;k x;k gSA
2- èkkjk 25 esa ;FkkfofufnZ"V lacafèkr O;fDr;ksa ;k lqfHkUu O;fDr;ksa ds chp eky
;k lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dk çnk;] iwfrZ tgk¡ ,slk çnk; dkjckj ds vuqØe ;k mls vxzlj djus
esa fd;k x;k gS%
ijarq fdlh fu;kstd }kjk fdlh deZpkjh dks ,d foÙkh; o"kZ esa ipkl
gtkj #i;s ls vufèkd ewY; ds fn, x, HksaV dks eky ;k lsok ;k nksuksa dk çnk; ugha ekuk
tk,xkA
3- eky dk çnk;
¼d½ tks fdlh iz/kku }kjk mlds vfHkdrkZ dks fd;k x;k gS] tgka vfHkdrkZ
iz/kku dh vksj ls ,sls eky dk çnk; djus dk opu nsrk gSA
¼[k½ tks fdlh vfHkdrkZ }kjk mlds ekfyd dks fd;k x;k gS] tgka vfHkdrkZ
iz/kku dh vksj ls ,sls eky dks çkIr djus dk opu nsrk gSA
4- dkjckj ds vuqØe ;k dkjckj dks vxzlj djus esa] djkèks; O;fDr }kjk Hkkjr
ls ckgj mlls lacafèkr O;fDRk ;k vius fdlh vU; LFkkiuk ls lsokvksa dk vk;kr djrk gSA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1493
vuqlwph vuqlwph vuqlwph vuqlwph vuqlwph II
¼nsf[k, /kkjk 7½
fØ;kdykiksa dks eky ds çnk; ;k lsokvksa ds çnk; ds :i esa ekuk tkuk
1- varj.k&
¼d½ eky esa gd dk dksbZ varj.k] eky dk çnk; gS (
¼[k½ eky esa gd ;k eky esa mlds gd ds varj.k ds fcuk vfoHkkftr fgLls dk
dksbZ varj.k] lsokvksa dk çnk; gS (
¼x½ eky esa gd+ dk varj.k tks fdlh ,sls djkj ds vèkhu gqvk gS tks vuqcaèk djrk
gS fd eky esa laifÙk dk gLrkarj.k ;Fkk lgefr lEiw.kZ çfrQy dks Hkqxrku
ij vkxkeh frfFk dks gksxk] eky dk çnk; gSA
2- Hkwfe vkSj Hkou&&
¼d½ dksbZ iêk] dkLrdkjh] lq[kkpkj] Hkwfe ds vkfèkiR; dh vuqKfIr] lsokvksa dk
çnk; gS (
¼[k½ fdlh Hkou] ftlds varxZr dkjckj ;k okf.kT; ds fy, okf.kfT;d] vkS|ksfxd
;k vkoklh; dEiysdl gS] dks iw.kZr ;k va'kr% fdlh iêk ;k fdjk, ij nsuk]
lsokvksa dk çnk; gSA
3- O;ogkj ;k çfØ;k&&
dksbZ O;ogkj ;k çfØ;k tks vU; O;fDr;ksa ds eky ij ykxw dh tkrh gS] lsokvksa
dk çnk; gSA
4- dkjckj vfLr;ksa dk varj.k&
¼d½ tgk¡ dkjckj pykus okys fdlh O;fä ;k mlds funs'k }kjk ;k ds v/khu
dkjckj dh vfLr;ksa ds Hkkx :i cuus fdlh eky dk] çfrQy gsrq ;k vU;Fkk]
bl çdkj varj.k ;k fuiVku mä eky ,slh vkfLr;ksa dk Hkkx u jgs] dh
n'kk esa ,slk varj.k ;k fuiVku ml O;fä }kjk eky dk çnk; gS (
¼[k½ tgk¡] O;olk; pykus okys fdlh O;fä ;k mlds funs'k }kjk ;k ds v/khu
dkjckj ds ç;kstukFkZ ç;qä ;k èkkfjr fdlh eky dk dksbZ futh mi;ksx fd;s
tkus ;k] mi;ksx fd;k x;k gS dkjckj ds iz;kstu ls fHkUu fdlh ç;kstu ds
fy,] pkgs çfrQy gsrq ;k vU;Fkk] fdlh vU; O;fä dks miyCèk djk;s tkus
dh n'kk esa ,slk mi;ksx ;k miyCèk djk;k tkuk] lsokvksa dk çnk; gS (
¼x½ tgka dksbZ O;fDRk djkèks; O;fDr ds :i esa ugha jgrk gS] dksbZ eky tks mlds

1494 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
}kjk pyk, tk jgs dkjckj dh vfLr;ksa dk fgLlk gS] mlds djkèks; O;fDr
ds :i esa og u jgus ls rqjar iwoZ mlds dkjckj ds vuqØe ;k vxzlj djus
esa mlds }kjk iznk; fd;k x;k le>k tk,xk] ;fn %&
(i) dkjckj dk varj.k vU; O;fDr dks pkyw izfr"Bkid ds :i esa ugha
gksrk gS( ;k
(ii) dkjckj ,sls O;fDrd çfrfufèk }kjk ugha pyk;k tkrk gS ftls djkèks;
O;fDr le>k tk,A
5- lsokvksa dk çnk; &
fuEufyf[kr dks lsok dk iznk; ekuk tk,xk] vFkkZRk~&
¼d½ vpy laifÙr dks fdjk, ij nsuk (
¼[k½ tgk¡ l{ke çkfèkdkjh }kjk tkjh lekiu çek.k i=] tgk¡ visf{kr gks] ds tkjh
gksus ;k blds çFke vkfèkiR;] tks Hkh igys gks] ds i'pkr tgka laiw.kZ çfrQy
çkIr gksrk gS ds flok;] iw.kZr% ;k va'kr% fdlh Øsrk dks foØ; gsrq vk'kf;r
fdlh ifjlj ;k Hkou lfgr fdlh ifjlj] Hkou] flfoy lajpuk ;k mlds
fdlh Hkkx dk lafuekZ.kA
O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& bl [kaM ds ç;kstuksa ds fy,&
¼1½ vfHkO;fDRe& ^^l{ke çkfèkdkjh** ls vfHkizk; gS ljdkj ;k rRle; ykxw fdlh
fofèk ds vèkhu lekiu çek.ki= tkjh djus ds fy, çkfèk—r dksbZ 
çkfèkdj.k dh vksj ls ,slk çek.ki= xSj visf{kr gksus dh n'kk esa] fuEufyf[kr fdUgh esa ls]
vFkkZr&
(i) okLrqfon~ vfèkfu;e] 1972 ¼1972 dk dsUnzh; vf/kfu;e 20½ ds vèkhu
xfBr okLrqfon~ ifj"kn~ ds lkFk ls 
(ii) baftfu;jh laLFkku ¼Hkkjr½ ds lkFk 
;k
(iii) Øe'k% 'kgj ;k dLck ;k xkao dk LFkkuh; fudk; ;k fodkl ;k ;kstuk
çkfèkdj.k dk dksbZ vuqKfIr loZs{kd (
¼2½ vfHkO;fDr ^^lafuekZ.k** ftlds varxZr fdlh fo|eku flfoy lajpuk esa vfrfjä~
fuekZ.k] ifjorZu] çfrLFkkiu ;k iqu çfr:i.k gS (
¼x½ fdlh ckSf)d laifÙk vfèkdkj ds mi;ksx ;k miHkksx dh vuqefr nsuk
;k vLFkkbZ varj.k djuk (
¼?k½ lwpuk çkS|ksfxdh l‚¶Vos;j dk fodkl] fMtkbu] çksxzkfeax] Øekns'ku]
vuqdwyu] mUufr] o`f)] dk;kZUo;u (

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1495
¼³½ fdlh dk;Z ls fojr gksus dh ckè;rk dks eatwjh nsuk ;k fdlh dk;Z ;k
fdlh fLFkfr dks lgu djuk ;k fdlh dk;Z dks djuk( vkSj
¼p½ fdlh ç;kstu ds fy, udn] vkLFkfxr Hkqxrku ;k vU; ewY;oku çfrQy
ds fy, ¼pkgs fdlh fofufnZ"V vofèk ds fy, gks ;k ugha½ fdlh eky
dks mi;ksx djus ds vfèkdkj dk dksbZ varj.kA
6- la;qDr Hkqxrku&
fuEufyf[kr la;qDr iznk;ksa dks lsokvksa dh iznk; ds :i ekuk tk,xk] vFkkZRk&
¼d½ èkkjk 2 ds [kaM ¼119½ esa ;Fkk ifjHkkf"kr dk;Z lafonk( vkSj
¼[k½ ,ssls eky dk] tks ekuo miHkksx ds fy, [kk| ;k dksbZ vU; lkexzh gS ;k fdlh
is; ¼ekuo miHkksx gsrq eknd 'kjkc ds vfrfjDr½ fdlh lsok ds #Ik esa ;k
mlds Hkkx #Ik esa ;k fdlh vU; jhfr esa] dksbZ Hkh gks] dksbZ iznk;] tgka] ,slk
iznk; ;k lsok udnh] vkLFkfxr Hkqxrku ;k vU; ewY;oku izfrQy ds fy,
gSA
7- ekyksa dk iznk;&
fuEufyf[kr dks ekyksa dh iznk; ds :i esa ekuk tk,xk] vFkkZr~%&
fdlh vfuxfer laxe ;k O;fDr;ksa ds fudk; }kjk mlds fdlh lnL; dks udn]
vkLFkfxr Hkqxrku ;k vU; ewY;oku çfrQy ds fy, eky dk iznk;A

1496 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
vuqlwph vuqlwph vuqlwph vuqlwph vuqlwph III
¼nsf[k, /kkjk 7½ ¼nsf[k, /kkjk 7½ ¼nsf[k, /kkjk 7½ ¼nsf[k, /kkjk 7½ ¼nsf[k, /kkjk 7½
fØ;kdyki ;k laO;ogkj ftUgsaa u rks eky dk iznk; ekuk tk,xk u gh lsokvksa dk
iznk; ekuk tk;sxk
1- fdlh deZpkjh }kjk vius fu;kstu ds vuqØe ds lacaèk esa fu;kstd dks nh x;h
lsok,aA
2- rRle; ykxw fdlh fofèk ds vèkhu LFkkfir fdlh U;k;ky; ;k vfèkdj.k }kjk nh
x;h lsok,aA
3- ¼d½ laln lnL;ksa] jkT; foèkkulHkk ds lnL;ksa] iapk;rksa ds lnL;ksa] uxjikfydkvksa
ds lnL;ksa vkSj vU; LFkkuh; çkfèkdj.kksa ds lnL;ksa }kjk ikyu fd, x,
—R;ksa(
¼[k½ lafoèkku ds micaèkksa ds vuqlj.k esa fdlh in dks èkkj.k fd, gq, fdlh O;fDr
}kjk ml gSfl;r esa ikyu fd, x, drZO;( ;k
¼x½ dsUæh; ljdkj ;k jkT;a ljdkj ;k LFkkuh; çkfèkdj.k }kjk LFkkfir fdlh
fudk; esa fdlh O;fDr }kjk vè;{k ;k fdlh lnL; ;k funs'kd ds :i esa
nh x;h lsokvksa vkSj ftls bl [kaM ds çkjaHk ls iwoZ fdlh deZpkjh ds :i
esa u le>k x;k gksA
4- vafre laLdkj] nQukuk] 'konkgx`g ;k eqnkZ?kj] ftlds varxZr e`rd ds ifjogu
dh lsok,aA
5- Hkwfe dk foØ; vkSj] vuqlwph II ds iSjk 5 ds [kaM ¼[k½ ds vè;èkhu] Hkou dk foØ;A
6- ykVjh] nkao vkSj |wr ds vfrfjDr vuq;ksT; nkosA
O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& O;k[;k& iSjkxzkQ 2 ds ç;kstu ds fy,] 'kCn ^^U;k;ky;** ds varxZr ftyk
U;k;ky;] mPp U;k;ky; vkSj mPpre U;k;ky; gSA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1497
foRrh; foRrh; foRrh; foRrh; foRrh; Kkiu Kkiu Kkiu Kkiu Kkiu
lafo/kku ¼,d lkS ,doka la'kks/ku½ vf/kfu;e] 2016 jkT; ljdkj dks ewY;of/kZr dj
¼ekuo miHkksx ds fy, 'kjkc vkSj isVªksfy;e mRiknksa dks NksM+dj½] izos'k dj] foykflrk dj]
foKkiu dj dks lfEefyr djds eky vkSj lsokvksa dh varjjkT;h; vkiwfrZ ij dj yxkus
dh 'kfDr iznku djrk gSA ;g vf/kfu;e eky vkSj lsok dj ds dk;kZUo;u ds dkj.k mRiUu
gksus okyh jktLo dh fdlh Hkh deh ds fy, jkT;ksa dks ikap o"kZ dh vof/k ds fy, {kfriwfrZ
iznku djokrk gSA
ekuo miHkksx ds fy, 'kjkc th,lVh ds nk;js ls ckgj gSA blds vykok] th,lVh
ifj"kn~ }kjk isVªksfy;e mRiknksa dks th,lVh ds nk;js ds rgr yk, tkus dk fu.kZ; ysus
ds le; rd ;s mRikn Hkh th,lVh ds vf/kdkj {ks= ls ckgj gh jgsaxsA ,sls le; rd
isVªksfy;e mRiknksa ij djk/kku dh orZeku iz.kkyh ds rgr gh dj yxk;k tkuk tkjh jgsxkA
laln us ikap o"kZ dh vof/k ds fy, jkT;ksa dks jktLo dh {kfriwfrZ ds fy, eky
vkSj lsok dj ¼jkT;ksa dks {kfriwfrZ½ vf/kfu;e] 2017 ikfjr dj fn;k gSA th,lVh ds dkj.k
jkT;ksa ds fdlh Hkh uqdlku ds fy, {kfriwfrZ dh jkf'k fu/kkZj.k djus ds iz;kstu ds fy,]
{kfriwfrZ dh x.kuk gsrq foRrh; o"kZ 2015&16 dks vk/kkj o"kZ fu/kkZfjr fd;k x;k gSA
lfEefyr fd, tk jgs djksa ds vuqlkj vk/kkj o"kZ ds nkSjku fdlh Hkh jkT; ds okLrfod
jktLo dks vk/kkj jktLo ds :i esa fy;k tk,xkA vk/kkj jktLo esa 14 izfr'kr dh pØo`f)
okf"kZd nj dks tksM+dj vk/kkj o"kZ jktLo ls ,d o"kZ ds fy, jkT; ds iz{ksfir jktLo dh
x.kuk dh tk,xhA foRrh; o"kZ ds iz{ksfir jktLo vkSj o"kZ ds nkSjku th,lVh ls okLrfod
izkfIR;ksa ds varj dks ml o"kZ ds fy, jktLo dk uqdlku ekuk tk,xkA
o"kZ 2015&16 ds fy, gfj;k.kk izns'k dk jktLo fooj.k bl izdkj gS%
o"kZ 2015&16 ds fy,] isVªksfy;e mRiknksa vkSj 'kjkc ls dj jktLo dks NksM+dj]
vk/kkj jktLo 15168-06 djksM+ #i;s gSA ekpZ] 2018 dks lekIr gksus okys foRrh; o"kZ ds
nkSjku ukS ekl ds fy, jkT; dk U;wure lqfuf'pr jktLo] 'kjkc vkSj isVªksfy;e mRiknksa
ls dj jktLo dks NksM+dj] bl izdkj gS%
o"kZ 2015&16 dk vk/kkj jktLo % 15168-06 djksM+ #i;s
¼isVªksy vkSj 'kjkc dks NksM+dj½
o`f} nj % 14 izfr'kr
iz{ksfir jktLo 2016&17 % 17291-59 djksM+ :i;s
2017&18 ds fy, iz{ksfir jkTkLo
12 ekl ¼o"kZ½ ds fy, % 19712-41 djksM+ :i;s
9 ekl ds fy, iz{ksfir jkTkLo % 14784-31 djksM+ :i;s

1498 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
jkT; dks 9 ekl ds iz{ksfir jkTkLo vkSj o"kZ 2017&18 ds 9 eghuksa ds nkSjku
th,lVh ls okLrfod izkfIr ds vraj dh jkf'k feysxhA
th,lVh dj O;oLFkk ls dj Hkqxrku dk vf/kd ls vf/kd vuqikyu lqfuf'pr
gksxkA dj vk/kkj ds foLrkj] dkjksckj ds ysunsu esa csgrj feyku vkSj buiqV VSDl ØsfMV
ls vf/kd jktLo mRiUu gksus dh laHkkouk gSA
dSIVu vfHkeU;q
vkcdkjh o djk/kku ea=h]
gfj;k.kk ljdkjA
——————
p.Mhx<+ % vkj- ds- ukany]
fnukad 4 ebZ] 2017- lfpoA
vo/ks; vo/ks; vo/ks; vo/ks; vo/ks; % % % % % mi;qZDr fo/ks;d gfj;k.kk fo/kku lHkk ds izfØ;k rFkk dk;Z lapkyu laca/kh
fu;eksa ds fu;e 128 ds ijUrqd ds v/khu fnukad 4 ebZ] 2017 ds gfj;k.kk
xouZeSaV xtV ¼

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1499
mn~ns';ksa mn~ns';ksa mn~ns';ksa mn~ns';ksa mn~ns';ksa vkSj vkSj vkSj vkSj vkSj dkj.kksa dkj.kksa dkj.kksa dkj.kksa dkj.kksa ij ij ij ij ij oDrO; oDrO; oDrO; oDrO; oDrO;
orZeku esa] lafo/kku jkT; ljdkjksa dks eky dh fcØh vkSj [kjhnh ij dj yxkus
dk vf/kdkj nsrk gSA dsUnz ljdkj dks eky ds fofuekZ.k ij vkcdkjh 'kqYd vkSj lsokvksa
ds izko/kku ij lsok dj yxkus dh 'kfDr;ka iznku dh xbZ gSaA foRrh; 'kfDr;ksa ds bl
fof'k"V foHkktu us ns'k esa vizR;{k djksa dh cgqyrk dks tUe fn;k gSA blds vfrfjDr]
varjjkT;h; fcfØ;ksa ij dsUnzh; fcØh dj ¼lh,lVh½ yxk;k tkrk gSA blds vykok] dbZ
jkT; LFkkuh; {ks=ksa esa eky ds izos'k ij izos'k dj] euksjatu dj] foykflrk dj vkfn yxkrs
gSaA
1- ns'k esa eky vkSj lsokvksa dh orZeku dj iz.kkyh dks dqN dfBukb;ksa dk lkeuk
djuk iM+ jgk gS tSls & ¼d½ dsUnz vkSj jkT; Lrjksa ij djksa dh cgqyrk ds dkj.k
tfVy vizR;{k dj <kaps dk fodkl gqvk gS tks O;kikj vkSj m|ksx ds fy, fNih
gqbZ ykxr ls xzLr gS% ¼[k½ jkT;ksa esa dj dh nj vkSj <kaps esa dksbZ ,d:irk ugha
gS vkSj *dj ij dj* ds dkj.k djksa dh O;kidrk gS vkSj ¼x½ O;kikfj;ksa dks jkT;
Lrjh; fcØh dj ;k ewY; of/kZr dj] vkSj blds foijhr Øe esa] dk Hkqxrku djrs
le; fuekZ.k Lrj ij vnk fd, x, vkcdkjh 'kqYd vkSj lsok dj dk Js; miyC/k ugha
gSA blds vykok] ,d jkT; esa Hkqxrku fd, x, jkT; djksa dk Js; nwljs jkT;ksa
esa ugha fy;k tk ldrk gSA vr% *dj ij dj* ds dkj.k oLrqvksa vkSj lsokvksa dh
dhers d`f=e :i ls c<+ tkrh gSA
2- bl laca/k esa 101oka lafo/kku la'kks/ku vf/kfu;e] 2016 vf/kfu;fer fd;k x;k gS
tks ns'k esa eky vksj lsok dj ¼th,lVh½ dh lqfo/kk iznku djrk gSA lafo/kku ds
la'kksf/kr izko/kku laln vkSj jkT; fo/kkulHkkvksa] nksuksa dks ,d lkFk leku ysunsu
ij oLrqvksa vkSj lsokvksa dh varjjkT;h; vkiwfrZ ij th,lVh yxkus ds fy, dkuwu
cukus esa l{ke cukrs gSaA
3- rnuqlkj] laln us eky ,oa lsokvksa dh varjjkT;h; vkiwfrZ ij dj yxkus ds fy,
dsUnzh; th,lVh vf/kfu;e ¼lhth,lVh½ vkSj eky ,oa lsokvksa dh jkT;h; vkiwfrZ
ij dj yxkus ds fy, lesfdr th,lVh ¼vkbZth,lVh½ vf/kfu;e] la?kh; {ks=
th,lVh ¼;wVhth,lVh½ vf/kfu;e vkSj jkT;ksa dks {kfriwfrZ nsus ds fy, {kfriwfrZ
vf/kfu;e ikfjr fd;k gSA
4- th,lVh ifj"kn us 31 ekpZ] 2017 dks jkT; th,lVh ¼,lth,lVh½ fo/ks;d ds
ekWMy MªkQ~V dks eatwjh ns nh gS vkSj jkT; fo/kkulHk esa ,lth,lVh fo/ks;d ikfjr
djus ds vuqjks/k ds lkFk lHkh jkT;ksa dks bl ckjs lwfpr fd;k gSA
5- mijksDr ds en~nsutj] ,d jkT; dkuwu] vFkkZr] gfj;k.kk jkT; eky vkSj lsok dj
fo/ks;d] 2017 ykuk t:jh gks x;k gSA izLrkfor dkuwu jkT; ljdkj dks jkT; ds
Hkhrj eky ;k lsokvksa dh vkiwfrZ ;k nksuksa ij eky vkSj lsok dj yxkus dh 'kfDr
iznku djsxkA

1500 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
6- izLrkfor jkT; oLrq vkSj lsok dj dkuwu ns’k esa vizR;{k dj O;oLFkk dks ljy
vkSj lqlaxr cuk,xkA vk'kk gS fd mRiknu ykxr vkSj vFkZO;LFkk esa eqnzkLQhfr de
gksxh] ftlls Hkkjrh; O;kikj vkSj m|ksx ?kjsyw rFkk varjjk"Vªh; Lrj ij vkSj
vf/kd izfrLi/khZ cusaxsA ;g Hkh mEehn dh tkrh gS fd eky vkSj lsok dj dk
fØ;kUo;u ,d leku jk"Vªh; cktkj dks c<+kok nsxk vkSj vFkZO;oLFkk ds fodkl esa
egRoiw.kZ ;ksxnku nsxkA ewY; lao/kZu dh J`a[kyk esa ,d pj.k ls nwljs pj.k rd
buiqV VSDl ØsfMV ds fuckZ/k gLrkarj.k ds dkj.k eky ,ao lsok dj dk fMTkkbUk
,d varfuZfeZr ra= gS tks djnkrkvksa }kjk dj vuqikyu fd, tkus dks izksRlkfgr
djsxkA ,d etcwr lwpuk izks|ksfxdh volajpuk ds dkj.k izLrkfor jkT; eky vkSj
lsok dj ls dj vk/kkj c<s+xk vkSj csgrj dj vuqikyu lqfuf'pr gksxkA
7- gfj;k.kk jkT; eky vkSj lsok dj fo/ks;d] 2017 esa vU; ckrksa ds lkFk fuEu 'kkfey
gS %
¼d½ ekuo miHkksx ds fy, vYdgkWfyd 'kjkc dh vkiwfrZ dks NksM+dj] eky ;k
lsokvksa ;k nksuksa dh lHkh varjjkT;h; vkiwfrZ ij ,slh njksa ij dj yxkuk]
tks 20 izfr'kr ls vf/kd ugha gksxh vkSj tSlk fd eky vkSj lsok dj ifj"kn
dh flQkfj'kksa ij vf/klwfpr fd;k tk,xk(
¼[k½ orZeku esa] eky vkSj lsok dj ifj"kn~ }kjk isVªksfy;e dPps rsy] gkbZ LihM
Mhty] eksVj fLifjV ¼vkerkSj ij isVªksy ds :Ik esa tkuk tkrk gS½] izkd`frd
xSl vkSj foekuu VjckbUk bZ/ku dh fcØh ij eky ,ao lsok dj yxkus dh
frfFk dh flQkfj'k fd, tkus rd bu oLrqvksa ij ekStwnk oSV vf/kfu;e ds
rgr dj yxk;k tk,xkA
¼x½ jkT; fo/kkulHkk esa ,lth,lVh fo/ks;d ds ikfjr gksus ij fuEu jkT; dj
lfEefyr gks tk,axs %
gfj;k.kk ewY; loaf/kZr dj vf/kfu;e] 2003 ¼lafo/kku dh lkroha vuqlwph dh
jkT; lwph dh izfof"V 54 esa 'kkfey oLrqvksa dks NksM+dj½ ¼,lth,lVh fo/ks;d dh
/kkjk 174 esa mfYyf[kr cpr ds vuqlkj vkSj gn rd½A
(i) gfj;k.kk LFkkuh; {ks= esa eky ds izos'k ij dj vf/kfu;e] 2008A
(ii) iatkc euksjatu 'kqYd vf/kfu;e] 1955 ¼iapk;r ;k uxj ikfydk ;k
{ks=h; ifj"kn ;k ftyk ifj"kn~ }kjk yxk, vkSj ,df=r dj dks
NksM+dj½A
(iii) gfj;k.kk foykflrk dj vf/kfu;e] 2007A
(iv) gfj;k.kk uxj fuxe vf/kfu;e] 1994 ¼1994 dk 16½ dh /kkjk 121 vkSj
88 dh mi/kkjk (i) ds [k.M (i) ds vUrxZr foKkiu djA

HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA) 1501
¼?k½ ifj"kn dh flQkfj'kksa ij jkT; ljdkj dks vf/klwpuk }kjk ;k fo'ks"k vkns'k
}kjk NwV iznku djus ds fy, l'kDr djuk]
¼³½ dsanz ljdkj vkSj jkT; ljdkj ds chp buiqV VSDl ØsfMV ds gLrkarj.k ds
ekeys esa dj dk foHkktu vkSj /ku dk fuiVku
¼p½ l{ke jkT; dj vf/kdkjh }kjk] O;fDr }kjk ljdkj dks ns; dj] C;kt ;k
tqekZuk] ftldk Hkqxrku ugha fd;k x;k gS] dh olwyh(
¼N½ foHkkx ls djk/kku ekeyksa ij ,d ck/;dkjh Li"VRkk izkIr djusa esa djnkrk
dh l{ke djus ds mn~ns'; ls ,d vfxze fofu.kZ; izkf/kdj.k ¼vWFkksfjVh QkWj
,Mokal :fyax½ dh LFkkiuk djuk(
¼t½ ekStwnk djnrkvksa ds eky vkSj lsok dj O;oLFkk esa lqpk: LFkkukarj.k ds
fy, O;kid ifjorhZ izko/kku djuk(
¼>½ izLrkfor dkuwu esa dsUnz eky vkSj lsok dj vf/kfu;e] 2017 ds dqN
izko/kkuksa ds LkkFk&LkkFk ifjHkk"kkvksa ls lacaf/kr] vkiwfrZ ds le; ,oa ewY;]
bUkiqV VSDLk ØsfMV] iathdj.k] nsjh 'kqYd ds vykok vU; fjVuZ] dj
vnk;xh] ewY;kadu] fjQaM] ys[kk ijh{kk] fujh{k.k] [kkst] tCrh vkSj fxjQ~rkjh]
ekaxksa vkSj olwyh] vihy vkSj la'kks/ku] vijk/k vkSj tqekZus rFkk ifjorhZ
izko/kku gksaxs(
¼´½ vk;qDr dks jkT; dj vf/kdkfj;ksa dks vkns'k] fn'kk&funsZ'k ;k funsZ'k tkjh
djus ds fy, l'kDr djuk %
8- fo/ks;d ls fuEu mn~ns'; iwjs gksaxsA
dSIVu vfHkeU;q]
vkcdkjh o djk/kku ea=h]
gfj;k.kk ljdkjA

1502 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 4, 2017 (VYSK. 13, 1939 SAKA)
izR;k;ksftr izR;k;ksftr izR;k;ksftr izR;k;ksftr izR;k;ksftr fo/kku fo/kku fo/kku fo/kku fo/kku ds ds ds ds ds lEcU/k lEcU/k lEcU/k lEcU/k lEcU/k esa esa esa esa esa Kkiu Kkiu Kkiu Kkiu Kkiu
izLrkfor fcy dh /kkjk 164 }kjk jkT; ljdkj dks vf/kfu;e ds mn~ns'; dh iwfrZ
gsrq fu;e cukus dh 'kfDr;ka nh xbZ gSA dk;Zdkjh dh 'kfDr;ksa dk ;g izR;k;kstu lkekU;
Lo:i dk gS vkSj dgha Hkh fo/kk;h 'kfDr;k¡ dk izR;k;kstu lkekU; Lo:i dks izR;kfn"V ugha
djrkA vr% gfj;k.kk fo/kku lHkk ds izfØ;k rFkk dk;Z lapkyu laca/kh fu;eksa 126 dh iwfrZ
ds fy;s ;g Kkiu vuqcfU/kr gSA
55271—H.V.S.—H.G.P., Chd.