Hkkx II — [k.M 1

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
lañ 45] ubZ fnYyh] c`gLifrokj] vxLr 30] 2018@Hkknzin 8] 1940 ¼'kd½
No. 45] NEW DELHI, THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 2018/BHADRAPADA 8, 1940 (SAKA)
bl Hkkx esa fHkUu i`"B la[;k nh tkrh gS ftlls fd ;g vyx ladyu ds :i esa j[kk tk ldsA
Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation.
MINISTRY OF LAW AND JUSTICE
(Legislative Department)
New Delhi, the 30 th August, 2018/ Bhadrapada 8 , 1940 ( Saka )
The following Act of Parliament received the assent of the President on the
29th August, 2018, and is hereby published for general information:—
THE INTEGRATED GOODS AND SERVICES TAX (AMENDMENT)
ACT, 2018
N O . 32 OF 2018
[29 th August, 2018.]
An Act further to amend the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017.
B E it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:––
1. ( 1 ) This Act may be called the Integrated Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Short title and
Act, 2018. commencement.
( 2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, appoint:
Provided that different dates may be appointed for different provisions of this Act
and any reference in any such provision to the commencement of this Act shall be construed
as a reference to the coming into force of that provision.

2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRA ORDINARY [P ART II— S EC . 1]
Amendment 2. In section 2 of the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (hereinafter 13 of 2017.
of section 2. referred to as the principal Act),––
( i ) in clause ( 6 ), in sub-clause ( iv ), after the words "foreign exchange", the
words "or in Indian rupees wherever permitted by the Reserve Bank of India" shall be
inserted;
( ii ) in clause ( 16 ), in the Explanation , in the long line, after the words "function
entrusted", the words, figures and letter "to a Panchayat under article 243G or" shall
be inserted.
Amendment 3. In section 5 of the principal Act, for sub-section ( 4 ), the following sub-section
of section 5. shall be substituted, namely:––
"( 4 ) The Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, by
notification, specify a class of registered persons who shall, in respect of supply of
specified categories of goods or services or both received from an unregistered
supplier, pay the tax on reverse charge basis as the recipient of such supply of goods
or services or both, and all the provisions of this Act shall apply to such recipient as
if he is the person liable for paying the tax in relation to such supply of goods or
services or both.".
Amendment 4. In section 8 of the principal Act, in sub-section ( 2 ), in Explanation 1, in clause (iii),
of section 8. the words, ‘‘being a business vertical’’ shall be omitted.
Amendment 5. In section 12 of the principal Act, in sub-section ( 8 ), the following proviso shall be
of section 12. inserted, namely:––
"Provided that where the transportation of goods is to a place outside India,
the place of supply shall be the place of destination of such goods.".
Amendment 6. In section 13 of the principal Act, in sub-section ( 3 ), in clause ( a ), for the second
of section 13. proviso, the following proviso shall be substituted, namely:––
"Provided further that nothing contained in this clause shall apply in the case
of services supplied in respect of goods which are temporarily imported into India for
repairs or for any other treatment or process and are exported after such repairs or
treatment or process without being put to any use in India, other than that which is
required for such repairs or treatment or process;".
Amendment 7. In section 17 of the principal Act, after sub-section ( 2 ), the following sub-section
of section 17. shall be inserted, namely:––
"( 2A ) . The amount not apportioned under sub-section ( 1 ) and sub-section ( 2 )
may, for the time being, on the recommendations of the Council, be apportioned at the
rate of fifty per cent. to the Central Government and fifty per cent. to the State
Governments or the Union territories, as the case may be, on ad hoc basis and shall
be adjusted against the amount apportioned under the said sub-sections.".
Amendment 8. In section 20 of the principal Act, after the fourth proviso, the following proviso
of section 20. shall be inserted, namely:––
"Provided also that where the appeal is to be filed before the Appellate Authority
or the Appellate Tribunal, the maximum amount payable shall be fifty crore rupees and
one hundred crore rupees respectively.’’.
————
DR. REETA VASISHTA,
Additional Secretary to the Govt. of India.
UPLOADED BY THE MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD, NEW DELHI–110002
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI–110054.
MGIPMRND—1724GI(S3)—30-08-2018.